A woman's mind is cleaner than a man's: She changes it more often.
If you haven't got anything nice to say about anybody, come sit next to me.
Do not take life too seriously. You will never get out of it alive.
Always remember that you are absolutely unique. Just like everyone else.
We are all here on earth to help others; what on earth the others are here for I don't know.
People who think they know everything are a great annoyance to those of us who do.
Get your facts first, then you can distort them as you please.
I believe that if life gives you lemons, you should make lemonade... And try to find somebody whose life has given them vodka, and have a party.
I'm sorry, if you were right, I'd agree with you.
Roses are red, violets are blue, I'm schizophrenic, and so am I.
Conversation would be vastly improved by the constant use of four simple words: I do not know.
When you are courting a nice girl an hour seems like a second. When you sit on a red-hot cinder a second seems like an hour. That's relativity.
I can resist everything except temptation.
A successful man is one who makes more money than his wife can spend. A successful woman is one who can find such a man.
Procrastination is the art of keeping up with yesterday.
A day without sunshine is like, you know, night.
I love deadlines. I like the whooshing sound they make as they fly by.
Too much agreement kills a chat.
I never said most of the things I said.
Any girl can be glamorous. All you have to do is stand still and look stupid.
Drawing on my fine command of the English language, I said nothing.
One advantage of talking to yourself is that you know at least somebody's listening.
Don't talk about yourself; it will be done when you leave.
If two wrongs don't make a right, try three.
If you could kick the person in the pants responsible for most of your trouble, you wouldn't sit for a month.
I may be drunk, Miss, but in the morning I will be sober and you will still be ugly.
Wine is constant proof that God loves us and loves to see us happy.
My fake plants died because I did not pretend to water them.
One man is as good as another until he has written a book.
The trouble with having an open mind, of course, is that people will insist on coming along and trying to put things in it.
Behind every great man is a woman rolling her eyes.
If you're going to do something tonight that you'll be sorry for tomorrow morning, sleep late.
Laugh and the world laughs with you, snore and you sleep alone.
Prejudice is a great time saver. You can form opinions without having to get the facts.
The chief function of the body is to carry the brain around.
Go to Heaven for the climate, Hell for the company.
Weather forecast for tonight: dark.
No man has a good enough memory to be a successful liar.
Children are smarter than any of us. Know how I know that? I don't know one child with a full time job and children.
O Lord, help me to be pure, but not yet.
My one regret in life is that I am not someone else.
All my life, I always wanted to be somebody. Now I see that I should have been more specific.
The first time I sang in the church choir; two hundred people changed their religion.
You can lead a man to Congress, but you can't make him think.
All generalizations are false, including this one.
Electricity is really just organized lightning.
The next time you have a thought... let it go.
All right everyone, line up alphabetically according to your height.
I may be a living legend, but that sure don't help when I've got to change a flat tire.
I'm a misplaced American, but don't know where I was misplaced.
A government that robs Peter to pay Paul can always depend on the support of Paul.
My grandmother started walking five miles a day when she was sixty. She's ninety-seven now, and we don't know where the hell she is.
I was eating in a Chinese restaurant downtown. There was a dish called Mother and Child Reunion. It's chicken and eggs. And I said, I gotta use that one.
Thinking is one thing no one has ever been able to tax.
Before I refuse to take your questions, I have an opening statement.
Gambling: The sure way of getting nothing for something.
Tragedy is when I cut my finger. Comedy is when you fall into an open sewer and die.
Cleanliness becomes more important when godliness is unlikely.
The best measure of a man's honesty isn't his income tax return. It's the zero adjust on his bathroom scale.
I like a woman with a head on her shoulders. I hate necks.
I refuse to join any club that would have me as a member.
Life is hard. After all, it kills you.
I have never been hurt by what I have not said.
I have had a perfectly wonderful evening, but this wasn't it.
When God sneezed, I didn't know what to say.
I always wanted to be somebody, but now I realize I should have been more specific.
When I eventually met Mr. Right I had no idea that his first name was Always.
How long was I in the army? Five foot eleven.
All my children inherited perfect pitch.
Any kid will run any errand for you, if you ask at bedtime.
Never floss with a stranger.
If God wanted us to fly, He would have given us tickets.
I used to sell furniture for a living. The trouble was, it was my own.
As for our majority... one is enough.
The fascination of shooting as a sport depends almost wholly on whether you are at the right or wrong end of the gun.
When I was a boy the Dead Sea was only sick.
Communism is like one big phone company.
It all started when my dog began getting free roll over minutes.
I would talk in iambic pentameter if it were easier.
One man's folly is another man's wife.
We need two kinds of acquaintances, one to complain to, while to the others we boast.
There are lots of people who mistake their imagination for their memory.
An idea isn't responsible for the people who believe in it.
I love fools' experiments. I am always making them.
There cannot be a crisis next week. My schedule is already full.
Every time I see an adult on a bicycle, I no longer despair for the future of the human race.
If you cannot get rid of the family skeleton, you may as well make it dance.
Older people shouldn't eat health food, they need all the preservatives they can get.
In comic strips, the person on the left always speaks first.
An optimist is a fellow who believes a housefly is looking for a way to get out.
If I want to knock a story off the front page, I just change my hairstyle.
Between two evils, I always pick the one I never tried before.
If women ran the world we wouldn't have wars, just intense negotiations every 28 days.
If this is coffee, please bring me some tea; but if this is tea, please bring me some coffee.
Every dogma has its day.
A James Cagney love scene is one where he lets the other guy live.
I saw a stationery store move.
I looked up my family tree and found out I was the sap.
Lead us not into temptation. Just tell us where it is; we'll find it.
Every cloud has its silver lining but it is sometimes a little difficult to get it to the mint.
As a child my family's menu consisted of two choices: take it or leave it.
Cure for an obsession: get another one.
A word to the wise is infuriating.
If at first you don't succeed... so much for skydiving.
Well, if I called the wrong number, why did you answer the phone?
All men are equal before fish.
I would like to die on Mars. Just not on impact.
A stockbroker urged me to buy a stock that would triple its value every year. I told him, 'At my age, I don't even buy green bananas.'
That's my only goal. Surround myself with funny people, and make sure everyone has a good time and works hard.
If you don't mind, it doesn't matter.
He looks as though he's been weaned on a pickle.
I like long walks, especially when they are taken by people who annoy me.
Anyone who says he can see through women is missing a lot.
Food is an important part of a balanced diet.
I don't deserve this award, but I have arthritis and I don't deserve that either.
I consider that a man's brain originally is like a little empty attic, and you have to stock it with such furniture as you choose.
Television has brought back murder into the home - where it belongs.
The only time I ever enjoyed ironing was the day I accidentally got gin in the steam iron.
I did not have three thousand pairs of shoes, I had one thousand and sixty.
Yield to temptation. It may not pass your way again.
I don't need you to remind me of my age. I have a bladder to do that for me.
Food, love, career, and mothers, the four major guilt groups.
Never fight an inanimate object.
I don't believe in the after life, although I am bringing a change of underwear.
I failed to make the chess team because of my height.
After all is said and done, sit down.
So, where's the Cannes Film Festival being held this year?
Progress was all right. Only it went on too long.
I have a wonderful make-up crew. They're the same people restoring the Statue of Liberty.
I am not a member of any organized political party. I am a Democrat.
I'm writing a book. I've got the page numbers done.
Marriage is a wonderful institution, but who would want to live in an institution?
If I had to live my life again, I'd make the same mistakes, only sooner.
I drank some boiling water because I wanted to whistle.
It is a scientific fact that your body will not absorb cholesterol if you take it from another person's plate.
Every man's dream is to be able to sink into the arms of a woman without also falling into her hands.
We are all born mad. Some remain so.
If you want to be thought a liar, always tell the truth.
Boy, those French: they have a different word for everything!
I was the kid next door's imaginary friend.
Everything I like is either illegal, immoral or fattening.
My uncle Sammy was an angry man. He had printed on his tombstone: What are you looking at?
I don't think anyone should write their autobiography until after they're dead.
Expert: a man who makes three correct guesses consecutively.
It is easy for me to love myself, but for ladies to do it is another question altogether.
The four building blocks of the universe are fire, water, gravel and vinyl.
I recorded my hair this morning, tonight I'm watching the highlights.
I rant, therefore I am.
As far as I'm concerned, 'whom' is a word that was invented to make everyone sound like a butler.
Miami Beach is where neon goes to die.
I could sooner reconcile all Europe than two women.
By all means let's be open-minded, but not so open-minded that our brains drop out.
I knew I was an unwanted baby when I saw that my bath toys were a toaster and a radio.
I would never die for my beliefs because I might be wrong.
It's simple, if it jiggles, it's fat.
I am a marvelous housekeeper. Every time I leave a man I keep his house.
My life needs editing.
I have tried to know absolutely nothing about a great many things, and I have succeeded fairly well.
I love to go to Washington - if only to be near my money.
The way my luck is running, if I was a politician I would be honest.
Men are only as loyal as their options.
I'm for whatever gets you through the night.
We owe to the Middle Ages the two worst inventions of humanity - romantic love and gunpowder.
I'm like old wine. They don't bring me out very often - but I'm well preserved.
I spent a year in that town, one Sunday.
Everybody talks about the weather, but nobody does anything about it.
Why don't you get out of that wet coat and into a dry martini?
Let's have some new cliches.
I'm an optimist, but an optimist who carries a raincoat.
Why don't you get a haircut? You look like a chrysanthemum.
I'm kidding about having only a few dollars. I might have a few dollars more.
I have six locks on my door all in a row. When I go out, I lock every other one. I figure no matter how long somebody stands there picking the locks, they are always locking three.
I found there was only one way to look thin: hang out with fat people.
It takes considerable knowledge just to realize the extent of your own ignorance.
If I were two-faced, would I be wearing this one?
I hate housework! You make the beds, you do the dishes and six months later you have to start all over again.
Do not worry about avoiding temptation. As you grow older it will avoid you.
This suspense is terrible. I hope it will last.
When we talk to God, we're praying. When God talks to us, we're schizophrenic.
My definition of an intellectual is someone who can listen to the William Tell Overture without thinking of the Lone Ranger.
What's another word for Thesaurus?
I saw a woman wearing a sweatshirt with Guess on it. I said, Thyroid problem?
There are only three things women need in life: food, water, and compliments.
It's amazing that the amount of news that happens in the world every day always just exactly fits the newspaper.
I love Mickey Mouse more than any woman I have ever known.
I no doubt deserved my enemies, but I don't believe I deserved my friends.
Society is like a stew. If you don't stir it up every once in a while then a layer of scum floats to the top.
Nobody ever went broke underestimating the taste of the American public.
You can always tell when a man's well informed. His views are pretty much like your own.
Man cannot live by bread alone; he must have peanut butter.
How many people here have telekenetic powers? Raise my hand.
I wear a necklace, cause I wanna know when I'm upside down.
Two wrongs don't make a right, but they make a good excuse.
Originality is the fine art of remembering what you hear but forgetting where you heard it.
One of the disadvantages of wine is that it makes a man mistake words for thoughts.
People always ask me, 'Were you funny as a child?' Well, no, I was an accountant.
Anytime you see a turtle up on top of a fence post, you know he had some help.
Reality continues to ruin my life.
Be obscure clearly.
If you live to be one hundred, you've got it made. Very few people die past that age.
He was like a cock who thought the sun had risen to hear him crow.
Forty for you, sixty for me. And equal partners we will be.
Christopher Columbus, as everyone knows, is honored by posterity because he was the last to discover America.
I believe in rules. Sure I do. If there weren't any rules, how could you break them?
If a cluttered desk is the sign of a cluttered mind, what is the significance of a clean desk?
I think the eyes flirt most. There are so many ways to use them.
I don't deserve any credit for turning the other cheek as my tongue is always in it.
I have a memory like an elephant. I remember every elephant I've ever met.
Memories are like mulligatawny soup in a cheap restaurant. It is best not to stir them.
It has yet to be proven that intelligence has any survival value.
The way taxes are, you might as well marry for love.
I don't have a bank account because I don't know my mother's maiden name.
The one thing you shouldn't do is try to tell a cab driver how to get somewhere.
I read part of it all the way through.
Include me out.
I own and operate a ferocious ego.
Happiness is having a large, loving, caring, close-knit family in another city.
Even Napoleon had his Watergate.
If I knew for a certainty that a man was coming to my house with the conscious design of doing me good, I should run for my life.
If it weren't for Philo T. Farnsworth, inventor of television, we'd still be eating frozen radio dinners.
I've always wanted to go to Switzerland to see what the army does with those wee red knives.
Only the mediocre are always at their best.
We know that the nature of genius is to provide idiots with ideas twenty years later.
I have a new philosophy. I'm only going to dread one day at a time.
I never expected to see the day when girls would get sunburned in the places they now do.
There's one thing about baldness, it's neat.
The IRS! They're like the Mafia, they can take anything they want!
I was born in very sorry circumstances. Both of my parents were very sorry.
I wanna make a jigsaw puzzle that's 40,000 pieces. And when you finish it, it says 'go outside.'
May the forces of evil become confused on the way to your house.
The last time I saw him he was walking down lover's lane holding his own hand.
I used to jog but the ice cubes kept falling out of my glass.
You're only as good as your last haircut.
What after all, is a halo? It's only one more thing to keep clean.
If it's the Psychic Network why do they need a phone number?
The reward of energy, enterprise and thrift is taxes.
Have enough sense to know, ahead of time, when your skills will not extend to wallpapering.
There's no such thing as soy milk. It's soy juice.
As I get older, I just prefer to knit.
You see much more of your children once they leave home.
A pessimist is a person who has had to listen to too many optimists.
I'm undaunted in my quest to amuse myself by constantly changing my hair.
My theory is that all of Scottish cuisine is based on a dare.
Parents are the last people on earth who ought to have children.
Until you walk a mile in another man's moccasins you can't imagine the smell.
People say that life is the thing, but I prefer reading.
Progress might have been alright once, but it has gone on too long.
Who picks your clothes - Stevie Wonder?
Instant gratification takes too long.
Parrots make great pets. They have more personality than goldfish.
Someone told me that when they go to Vermont, they feel like they're home. I'm that way at Saks.
I distrust camels, and anyone else who can go a week without a drink.
Tact is the ability to describe others as they see themselves.
I bought some batteries, but they weren't included.
All the candy corn that was ever made was made in 1911.
To be or not to be. That's not really a question.
I'm spending a year dead for tax reasons.
Everything that used to be a sin is now a disease.
There's nothing wrong with being shallow as long as you're insightful about it.
If God wanted us to bend over he'd put diamonds on the floor.
I have yet to hear a man ask for advice on how to combine marriage and a career.
Defy your own group. Rebel against yourself.
What contemptible scoundrel has stolen the cork to my lunch?
I think they should have a Barbie with a buzz cut.
I have an unfortunate personality.
Every man has his follies - and often they are the most interesting thing he has got.
My father would take me to the playground, and put me on mood swings.
I have a very low level of recognition, which is fine by me.
It is to be observed that 'angling' is the name given to fishing by people who can't fish.
TV is chewing gum for the eyes.
I'd luv to kiss ya, but I just washed my hair.
If you can't tell a spoon from a ladle, then you're fat!
He looked about as inconspicuous as a tarantula on a slice of angel food.
Men are liars. We'll lie about lying if we have to. I'm an algebra liar. I figure two good lies make a positive.
If truth is beauty, how come no one has their hair done in the library?
Experience is what you have after you've forgotten her name.
I was a vegetarian until I started leaning toward the sunlight.
I never liked you, and I always will.
Common sense is the collection of prejudices acquired by age eighteen.
The reports of my death have been greatly exaggerated.
They say marriages are made in Heaven. But so is thunder and lightning.
There's a great power in words, if you don't hitch too many of them together.
I'm thankful for the three ounce Ziploc bag, so that I have somewhere to put my savings.
A two-year-old is kind of like having a blender, but you don't have a top for it.
I cook with wine, sometimes I even add it to the food.
Frisbeetarianism is the belief that when you die, your soul goes up on the roof and gets stuck.
A nickel ain't worth a dime anymore.
I haven't spoken to my wife in years. I didn't want to interrupt her.
Age is something that doesn't matter, unless you are a cheese.
Money won't buy happiness, but it will pay the salaries of a large research staff to study the problem.
If love is the answer, could you please rephrase the question?
A sure cure for seasickness is to sit under a tree.
Fashions have done more harm than revolutions.
The tax collector must love poor people, he's creating so many of them.
When we ask for advice, we are usually looking for an accomplice.
Never put a sock in a toaster.
Flattery is like cologne water, to be smelt, not swallowed.
I'm the only man in the world with a marriage licence made out to whom it may concern.
Why do they call it rush hour when nothing moves?
A child of five would understand this. Send someone to fetch a child of five.
Smoking kills. If you're killed, you've lost a very important part of your life.
A vegetarian is a person who won't eat anything that can have children.
California is a fine place to live - if you happen to be an orange.
I can speak Esperanto like a native.
Be thankful we're not getting all the government we're paying for.
Guilt: the gift that keeps on giving.
Never have more children than you have car windows.
A committee is a group that keeps minutes and loses hours.
It is even harder for the average ape to believe that he has descended from man.
I buy expensive suits. They just look cheap on me.
If you want a guarantee, buy a toaster.
We owe a lot to Thomas Edison - if it wasn't for him, we'd be watching television by candlelight.
If at first you don't succeed, find out if the loser gets anything.
Progress is man's ability to complicate simplicity.
The reason there are two senators for each state is so that one can be the designated driver.
To label me an intellectual is a misunderstanding of what that is.
If you're naturally kind, you attract a lot of people you don't like.
If at first you don't succeed, blame your parents.
I went window shopping today! I bought four windows.
Working with Julie Andrews is like getting hit over the head with a valentine.
When you're in love it's the most glorious two and a half days of your life.
Every man has a sane spot somewhere.
Brought up to respect the conventions, love had to end in marriage. I'm afraid it did.
Because of their size, parents may be difficult to discipline properly.
I used to be Snow White, but I drifted.
Whoever is my relative, I will not be nice to them.
Our national flower is the concrete cloverleaf.
I've never been married, but I tell people I'm divorced so they won't think something is wrong with me.
God did not intend religion to be an exercise club.
I like children - fried.
I'm going to marry a Jewish woman because I like the idea of getting up Sunday morning and going to the deli.
We'll love you just the way you are if you're perfect.
I like marriage. The idea.
I'd never been in play long enough for the flowers to die in the dressing room.
When I go to a bar, I don't go looking for a girl who knows the capital of Maine.
I wish I had the nerve not to tip.
Best way to get rid of kitchen odors: Eat out.
I grew up in Europe, where the history comes from.
If you have a secret, people will sit a little bit closer.
When I was born I owed twelve dollars.
Never take a solemn oath. People think you mean it.
I think serial monogamy says it all.
I was sleeping the other night, alone, thanks to the exterminator.
Why do you have to be a nonconformist like everybody else?
Housework can't kill you, but why take a chance?
I was so naive as a kid I used to sneak behind the barn and do nothing.
My mother was against me being an actress - until I introduced her to Frank Sinatra.
One picture is worth 1,000 denials.
Don't forget Mother's Day. Or as they call it in Beverly Hills, Dad's Third Wife Day.
My wife has a slight impediment in her speech. Every now and then she stops to breathe.
Macho does not prove mucho.
I am certain there is too much certainty in the world.
I cannot sing, dance or act; what else would I be but a talk show host.
Do not let a flattering woman coax and wheedle you and deceive you; she is after your barn.
I quit therapy because my analyst was trying to help me behind my back.
A lot of baby boomers are baby bongers.
I want my children to have all the things I couldn't afford. Then I want to move in with them.
If I had to live my life over, I'd live over a saloon.
Turn up the lights. I don't want to go home in the dark.
Moderation is a virtue only in those who are thought to have an alternative.
She was a handsome woman of forty-five and would remain so for many years.
If men knew how women pass the time when they are alone, they'd never marry.
The superfluous, a very necessary thing.
The first day one is a guest, the second a burden, and the third a pest.
I sang in the choir for years, even though my family belonged to another church.
The day I made that statement, about the inventing the internet, I was tired because I'd been up all night inventing the Camcorder.
Me carrying a briefcase is like a hotdog wearing earrings.
When you're eight years old nothing is your business.
Nobody understands anyone 18, including those who are 18.
I never drink water because of the disgusting things that fish do in it.
Trust is hard to come by. That's why my circle is small and tight. I'm kind of funny about making new friends.
Everything is funny, as long as it's happening to somebody else.
I'm so single. It's funny. I'm usually a relationship girl. I love being in love and having a partner in crime. But it's good to be your own partner in crime. God, that makes me sound like I have multiple-personality disorder.
From there to here, and here to there, funny things are everywhere.
I had everything I'd hoped for, but I wasn't being myself. So I decided to be honest about who I was. It was strange: The people who loved me for being funny suddenly didn't like me for being... me.
When you see things upside down, the ego can be extraordinarily funny; it's absurd. But it's tragic at the same time.
Comedians don't laugh. They're too busy analyzing why it's funny or not.
I love Charlie, Billy Burke's character. Writing for him is so spectacular, he's so funny and wry and every scene he's in he just takes. There's a scene in 'Eclipse' where Bella tells him she's a virgin, and it's the funniest, most awkward scene I've ever seen on film.
Life would be tragic if it weren't funny.
You know the funny thing, I don't get along with rich people. I get along with the middle class and the poor people better than I get along with the rich people.
And remember, it's also very funny, because side by side with grief lies joy.
I think the word 'pregnant' is funny.
I've never really understood that. It's a funny thing; people sometimes accuse us of condescending to our characters somehow-that to me is kind of inexplicable.
Some people say funny things, but I say things funny.
There's nothing cure or funny or lovable about being cheap. It's a total turn-off.
But the only comparison that I want to Lenny Bruce is that I'm funny. I'm Freddie Prinze, Puerto Rican all the way.
Humor has become so cliche and boring that nothing's funny anymore unless it involves something totally disgusting that offends somebody or makes them feel really uncomfortable.
But I think Kiss Kiss, Bang Bang really got that thing where, if a movie reads really funny and then has some dramatic or violent or sinister stuff in it, you can't forget that primarily it has to be even funnier than you read it or that other stuff doesn't work.
The moment I was introduced to my wife, Emma, at a party I thought, here she is - and 20 minutes later I told her she ought to marry me. She thought I was as mad as a rat. She wouldn't even give me her telephone number - and she wrote in her diary: 'A funny little man asked me to marry him.'
My parents are both really, really funny, and my little sister is a really good painter, and my other sister is a really good writer.
I've actually tried to roast somebody that I don't like, and it doesn't go well. Either they're a bad sport or I'm not as funny as I could be.
The parrot's so funny. He imitates me and I don't even realize he's doing it. I'm walking around the house talking to myself and whistling and the next day he's said something I've said... it's scary you know?
Actually being funny is mostly telling the truth about things.
It's a funny thing, the less people have to live for, the less nerve they have to risk losing nothing.
I grew up as a very sarcastic person. I was always the class clown, and to date girls, I had to be really funny. I was really skinny growing up. I was so thin, I had to run around in the shower to get wet. That kind of thin. So I always had to rely on humor and sarcasm.
Life's pretty funny when you're objectively on the outside looking at it.
When I was a little kid, I wrote this play about all these characters living in a haunted house. There was a witch who lived there, and a mummy. When they were all hassling him, this guy who bought the house - I can't believe I remember this - he said to them, 'Who's paying the mortgage on this haunted house?' I thought that was really funny.
My wife is way funnier than I am. As much as I don't really feel I share a sense of humour with my family, I definitely share one with her - we find the same things funny.
I used to think that everything was just being funny but now I don't know. I mean, how can you tell?
There's a fine line between angry and grumpy. Angry isn't nice, but grumpy is funny.
It's funny because everyone says, 'Oh you're reclusive; you don't do social media,' but it's not about being reclusive. I like direct contact, and I like contact that's purposeful.
With the stand-up comic on TV, whether it's Seinfeld or Cosby or Roseanne, more important than their knowledge of how to tell a joke is their knowledge of themselves, or the persona they've created as themselves. So that when you're in a room with writers, you can say, 'Guys, that's a funny line, but I wouldn't say it.'
I'm obsessive about the kind of melodrama of getting through the days and trying to make them good and funny and a happy experience. But my feeling towards the fans is that they delivered me from darkness.
I feel for Veronica Mars so much when I'm watching at home. It is a wonderful story. The writing is consistently funny, biting, charming, heart-wrenching, etc. I also like the look of it. The cinematography - different from any other show.
I think we're all good and bad, but good's not funny. Bad is funny. Suppress the good and let the bad out, and then you can be funny.
I have only been funny about seventy four per cent of the time. Yes I think that is right. Seventy-four per cent of the time.
Something about New York, man: You can do more comedy there probably than you can anywhere in the world. If you're interested in being funny, New York is the place to go.
Great, big, serious novels always get awards. If it's a battle between a great, big, serious novel and a funny novel, the funny novel is doomed.
Humor has to surprise us; otherwise, it isn't funny. It's a death knell for a writer to be labeled a humorist because then it's not a surprise anymore.
People think it's funny that I enjoy dreaming so much. I just use it as a form of entertainment. It's very private. I don't see my dreams as separate. I mean, half the time I'm wandering around dreaming anyway.
It's funny how a chubby kid can just be having fun, and people call it entertainment!
It's quite funny in that I once won Rear of the Year at my school! I was about 17 in the sixth form and we used to have an end of year celebration and give out different awards. I even got a little trophy!
As soon as I realized you could be funny as a job, that was the job I wanted.
It usually takes two people a little while to learn where the funny buttons are and testy buttons are.
I don't see much comedy in the Bible, where people are writing about funny people. It's not there.
All these jokes have been pre-approved as funny by me.
It is funny the two things most men are proudest of is the thing that any man can do and doing does in the same way, that is being drunk and being the father of their son.
I know what Germans are. They are a funny people. They are always choosing someone to lead them in a direction which they do not want to go.
Inappropriateness is funny to me. Rudeness is hilarious.
It's a funny show. The characters are surprisingly likable, given how ugly they are. We've got this huge cast of characters that we can move around. And over the last few seasons, we've explored some of the secondary characters' personal lives a bit more.
Her friends say she is very funny. At a family dinner, she stood to go, and the footman very properly pulled her chair away. At that moment I asked her a question and she sat down again, except there was no chair. Everyone, including the Queen, laughed and laughed.
I saw 28 Days. I don't remember rehab being like a day camp or being that funny. Rehab is a dumping ground. It's a big landfill.
I've always found it easier to be funny than to be serious.
If something is shocking without being funny it's hard to justify.
I find what I do for a living really funny. I mean, acting is kind of a hilarious thing for a grown man to call a job.
The audience changes every night. You're the same person. You have to speak your mind and do the stuff that you think is funny and makes you laugh.
I wouldn't totally rule out doing Letterman or the Tonight Show if I had a set that I just happened to write that I thought was funny but was still appropriate for network censors. But I'm not going to go out of my way.
Memories are doing funny things to us.
I don't believe that anybody has come to a conclusion on why something is funny. It's funny because it's ridiculous and it's ridiculous for different reasons at different times.
I just like the continue doing what I've been doing. A melange of funny, straight drama, television, movies, a little theater here and there wouldn't hurt. So if I can keep doing that, I'll be a very happy person.
The human brain is a funny thing: it's very susceptible to tempo and melody. You put the right words to it, and it becomes very influential.
I love being a dad, it keeps me fit and inspired and children are so funny. They always supply you with acting material!
I'm not one to sit here and judge here. But I think it's funny that the people that condemn the adult industry the most are the ones consuming the product the most.
Lana Turner was adorable and funny. Jimmy Stewart was such a nice person. I quickly realized that if you're not a nice person, you're not going to last in this business. I mean, once your box office starts to drop off, like Veronica Lake, they'll get rid of you fast.
People say funny things all the time during really serious moments in life.
I didn't plan to be the rude middle-class comedian. You write a certain type of joke that you find funny, and mine happen to be often rude. Yes, it's juvenile, but that's me.
Even in the very beginning when she would bump into George Valentine and people would start taking pictures of her, she never thought, 'I'm with George Valentine. I need to get a picture with him.' She's like 'oh that's funny. Everyone's taking pictures!'
I am interested in shows that are not out-and-out gag fests: you see the truth of a broken heart behind them. That is what life is like: it's really funny, you see funny things as soon as you step out of the room, but underneath that is a whole bag of broken hearts. It's that real pain and that real hilarity that makes life so intriguing.
It's a funny thing about life; if you refuse to accept anything but the best, you very often get it.
The funniest racism is the racism between minorities. It's something you don't see dramatized, but almost every minority I know who's my age, they have these funny stories about their parents stereotyping other minorities.
Why is Cloud 9 so amazing? What is wrong with Cloud 8? That joke came off the top of my head, and the top of my head ain't funny!
We are supposed to enjoy the good stuff now, while we can, with the people we love. Life has a funny way of teaching us that lesson over and over again.
Chaos in the midst of chaos isn't funny, but chaos in the midst of order is.
There's always going to be someone as funny as you or funnier.
Karaoke isn't fair when you're a comedian. The whole idea is to get people laughing and enjoying themselves, and I'm a professional funny guy.
It's funny. People often compare me to other humor essayists. They're usually quite nice comparisons; I will accept those gladly. But I am always sort of appalled at the idea of being lumped with other, more chick-y female writers. And the truth is probably that neither comparison is accurate.
I'm never afraid to try something if I think it's funny. And I know I'll regret it if I don't.
If you're serious, you really understand that it's important that you laugh as much as possible and admit that you're the funniest person you ever met. You have to laugh. Admit that you're funny. Otherwise, you die in solemnity.
Part of my act is meant to shake you up. It looks like I'm being funny, but I'm reminding you of other things. Life is tough, darling. Life is hard. And we better laugh at everything; otherwise, we're going down the tube.
Being funny wasn't a career choice growing up, it was my way out of situations; a way to survive another day.
I basically started performing for my mother, going, 'Love me!' What drives you to perform is the need for that primal connection. When I was little, my mother was funny with me, and I started to be charming and funny for her, and I learned that by being entertaining, you make a connection with another person.
There is nothing funny about Halloween. This sarcastic festival reflects, rather, an infernal demand for revenge by children on the adult world.
Funny is the world I live in. You're funny, I'm interested. You're not funny, I'm not interested.
I've never met a funny person who wasn't smart. I've met a lot of dramatic people who were stupid. But I've never met a funny person who wasn't smart.
My ideal prom date would have to be cute, funny, sweet, nice.
I don't think it's any coincidence that I lost my religious faith and 'manned up' in the same year. I was described somewhere as a lapsed Catholic, which is funny because I'm not going back! I want to achieve things rather than live life in an animalistic way.
You know, fame is a funny thing, man, especially, you know, actors, musicians, rappers, rock singers, it's kind of a lifestyle and it's easy to get caught up in it - you go to bars, you go to clubs, everyone's doing a certain thing... It's tough.
As I get older, all sorts of things become less funny. Once one has children, any cruelty involving children becomes far less amusing than when one was at the mercy of one's friends' and relatives' children.
If you have doubts about someone, lay on a couple of jokes. If he doesn't find anything funny, your radar should be screaming. Then I would say be patient with people who are negative, because they're really having a hard time.
The key is just to ignore the pain, because physical comedy only works if you see someone get hurt and they aren't actually hurt. If someone gets hit in the face with a bat, falls down, and gets back up, it's funny. If they stay down and their jaw is wired shut in the next scene, it's really tragic and weird. You have to pretend it doesn't hurt.
I write what I think is funny and I write from a sense of popping a balloon or a sense of injustice, whether it's about yourself, or whether it's about something else. It's my worldview; it doesn't mean that everybody has to agree with it.
Without hurting anybody, we all tend to laugh at others' discomfort. When someone slips on a banana skin and falls it's funny.
I was just a goofy little funny kid, who was always getting sent to the principal. It wasn't serious because I was smart. I wasn't like a true troublemaker, just rambunctious - like, talkative and trying to be funny. That was me in middle-school.
I try to sign for as many kids as possible. Kids come first, and I'll always sign for a kid before an adult. It's funny, because I was never big into autographs as a kid. The only player who I ever wanted an autograph from was Dave Winfield.
'Funny People' is my favorite performance of myself to date. Even though it's a comedy and there are serious moments, I really felt like Leo felt like a real person. It didn't feel like I was playing myself. Whether it's a comedy or drama, I just try to make it as realistic as possible.
I tend to play characters that I can infuse with certain kinds of humour. Even the baddest guy can be funny in his own particular way. I want the audience to engage with the character on some deeper level so that they leave the cinema still thinking about him.
Funny story: I was hanging out with Adam Shankman for Samantha Ronson's birthday, and Lance Bass was there. I don't really know Lance, but he comes over to me and goes, 'Hey, I just wanted to let you know I'm a fan of 'Pretty Little Liars' and I'm rooting for your character.' It was surreal! That's how 'PLL' has changed my life.
Forgiveness is a funny thing. It warms the heart and cools the sting.
The most exciting phrase to hear in science, the one that heralds new discoveries, is not 'Eureka!' but 'That's funny...'
Screaming at children over their grades, especially to the point of the child's tears, is child abuse, pure and simple. It's not funny and it's not good parenting. It is a crushing, scarring, disastrous experience for the child. It isn't the least bit funny.
When Jonathan Winters died, it was like, 'Oh, man!' I knew he was frail, but I always thought he was going to last longer. I knew him as being really funny, but at the same time, he had a dark side.
I'm definitely guilty of thinking something is funny but thinking the audience won't. Then three years later I will finally try it and it'll kill them. I got to give them more credit.
One of the funny things about the stock market is that every time one person buys, another sells, and both think they are astute.
The best ideas come as jokes. Make your thinking as funny as possible.
I got a lot of support from my parents. That's the one thing I always appreciated. They didn't tell me I was being stupid; they told me I was being funny.
I know some people say I can be funny. But there is always a deeper meaning to what I say. I am a socialist at heart and have the interests of the poor in mind. When people see how I manage to work my way out of tough situations, it gives them hope in their own life.
I'm blonde and tanned and normal-sized! I'm sweet, shy, funny, have a big heart and I'm nice - and I like to eat.
Everybody I know who is funny, it's in them. You can teach timing, or some people are able to tell a joke, though I don't like to tell jokes. But I think you have to be born with a sense of humor and a sense of timing.
When you're in the editing room, the dangerous thing is that it becomes like telling a joke again and again and again. Eventually, the joke starts to not be funny. So you have to be careful that you're not throwing the baby out with the bath water.
I like to have fun, but I don't think of myself as being funny. But I'm a big jokester, so I make fun of myself a lot!
I like Jacques Derrida; I think he's funny. I like my philosophy with a few jokes and puns. I know that that offends other philosophers; they think he's not taking things seriously, but he comes up with some marvellous puns. Why shouldn't you have a bit of fun while dealing with the deepest issues of the mind?
Someone told me I had funny facial expressions. I don't know whether I take that as a compliment or not, but.
When I was a kid, I used to watch 'Laurel and Hardy' with my cousins all the time. I still think they're extremely funny and so surreal.
It's funny, because in deference to conventional wisdom, I spent my struggling writer years trying to suppress my naturally baroque literary voice and write clean, spare prose. I finally gave up and embraced my baroque tendencies when I wrote the Kushiel series.
To be able to make a good living in a challenging medium like soap operas is great. The best is that I get to act and am rewarded for it. And the people I work with are great. Funny, intelligent, hard working. They're all great to be around.
It's a funny thing that when a man hasn't anything on earth to worry about, he goes off and gets married.
Being funny is one of my greatest strengths. I can make girls smile when they're down, and when they're having a good time, I can carry on the joke.
In my circle of friends, I've always been loud and funny and talkative. But as soon as I step out of that circle, I get very quiet and introspective. I don't want the spotlight on me.
Do you want me to apologize after every joke? If it doesn't offend somebody it's probably not a joke. It's probably an observation that's not funny. It's gotta offend somebody somewhere.
Mariah is a beautiful and talented person, and I've had a crush on her for as long as I can remember. Every day, my respect for Mariah continues to grow higher. She's a caring, warm and funny person. People have no idea how funny she is! I feel like I've always known she was my forever love.
It seems like everybody's perception of me is very bipolar. To one group, it's overpaid, overrated; to another group, it's underpaid, underrated, underdog. It's funny to me because there's no real balance.
The funny thing is that my husband couldn't be sweeter. He looks like this bad boy. He's got tattoos and earrings and a mohawk, but when you talk to him and he's around you, he's such a gentleman. He holds doors for ladies. He pulls out chairs. He cooks. He cleans.
I think there have always been funny women, from Carol Burnett to Joan Rivers. When the audience sees a woman, they innately know she's worked twice as hard to get there, she's had to prove that she can be the leader, first, and then be funny on top of it. She has to emit a confidence that she's in control.
Who doesn't love a funny girl who can look sexy at the same time?
There's nothing I dislike more than being in a photo shoot where they say, 'Be yourself.' That's not why I became an actress. That's what I find so funny: that you become an actor, and all of a sudden, everyone wants to know about you. But I didn't become an actor so I could show you me.
Being effective at social media, whether for business or personal use, means capturing people who have short attention spans. They're only a click away from a picture of a funny cat, so you have to make your thing more compelling than that cat. And that can be a high bar.
Working with Dav Pilkey was a dream come true. Dav is incredibly funny, and he's been a hero of mine for a long time. It was great bringing the 'Wimpy Kid' and 'Captain Underpants' worlds together!
Design is a funny word. Some people think design means how it looks. But of course, if you dig deeper, it's really how it works.
Most comedy is based on getting a laugh at somebody else's expense. And I find that that's just a form of bullying in a major way. So I want to be an example that you can be funny and be kind, and make people laugh without hurting somebody else's feelings.
Try to find someone with a sense of humor. That's an important thing to have because when you get into an argument, one of the best ways to diffuse it is to be funny. You don't want to hide away from a point, because some points are serious, but you'd rather have a discussion that was a discussion, rather than an argument.
The funny thing is, I'm so used to not caring what anyone says, good or bad, that unfortunately even when people say good things... I wish it made me feel good, but it doesn't.
You know, you can touch a stick of dynamite, but if you touch a venomous snake it'll turn around and bite you and kill you so fast it's not even funny.
I showed what I can do with butter, right? Eighty-five percent increase in sales. I'm very proud of them Country Life ads. They were funny and clever and classy like the Toblerone ads I grew up with.
I think I have an inner confidence that my tastes are pretty simple, that what I find funny finds a wide audience. I'm not particularly intellectual or clever or minority-focused in my creative instincts. And I'm certainly not aware of suppressing more sophisticated ambitions.
The men I idolized built their bodies and became somebody - like Sylvester Stallone and Arnold Schwarzenegger - and I thought, 'That can be me.' So I started working out. The funny thing is I didn't realize back then that I was having a defining moment.
It's funny, because there are so many stereotypes out there about actors and movie stars in general, but I've had a great opportunity to meet a lot of them, and maybe it's just because they don't behave that way around me, but I rarely see that kind of abuse of power.
I liked comedy as a kid. When I was a kid, I'd go to sleep to, like, Bill Cosby albums every night. I'd listen to 'Bill Cosby Is A Very Funny Fellow... Right!' and 'Wonderfulness,' which are two of his most famous albums. Then the next night, I'd flip them over, 'cause it was the old stackable turntable.
I had been asking the universe and God to send me a way for me to help me. Show business has been so wonderful to me, and it came in the form of that. It's just so funny how things come into your life, and if you take a chance on them, it might give you a brand new life.
I do keep getting these bad girl roles. The funny thing is that, honestly, I don't think I'm believable as these aristocratic mean girls. But I do love playing them.
To succeed in life, you need three things: a wishbone, a backbone and a funny bone.
It's funny about men and women. Men pay in cash to get them and pay in cash to get rid of them. Women pay emotionally coming and going. Neither has it easy.
I see fighters make funny videos about me and stick them on Facebook and get 20 likes. When I make a video, I sell it to Fox and make seven figures. That's the difference.
There's something dangerous about what's funny. Jarring and disconcerting. There is a connection between funny and scary.
The funny thing is people won't let me pay for things. I'll be in a restaurant and the manager will say, 'Oh no, it's on the house.'
I don't know, maybe I'm immature, but I still find it funny if I dump cold water on my girlfriend when she's in the shower.
I have funny bones. If there's ever any kind of tension, I'll always be the one to try and be funny to loosen things up.
I think it's harder to go from comedy to drama than from drama to comedy. Seeing you dramatic all the time, they crave to see you being silly or funny. But, seeing you in comedy all the time, it's hard to see that person go be serious, for some reason.
Nothing has ever touched on what fun childhood was. Summer holidays were bliss. We made home movies, with real stories in them. My father had such charm and charisma, and made everything so funny.
It's funny how most people love the dead, once you're dead, you're made for life.
It sounds funny, but my biggest fear is that I'm not perfect. I'm a perfectionist, and I get upset when things go wrong or when I don't do well.
During the Great Depression, when people laughed their worries disappeared. Audiences loved these funny men. I decided to become one.
I was raised by my grandparents, and they always made sure that I had a pencil and some paper, whether we were in the car or at a restaurant. While they were enjoying a nice meal, I would be sitting there drawing funny pictures of the waitress.
I can't stress to you enough how much I can relate to teens being cyberbullied. Something that helps me is looking at old videos of me and my friends from middle school, or videos of my family. I love watching funny videos of my favorite people - it really cheers me up.
I don't feel that I'm explaining the world or teaching people anything. And I'm not trying to be a mirror, showing them what's really going on the world. All I'm trying to do is think of stuff that's funny, just like when I'm kidding around with my friends.
Being a funny person does an awful lot of things to you. You feel that you mustn't get serious with people. They don't expect it from you, and they don't want to see it. You're not entitled to be serious, you're a clown.
I allow a lot of room for improvisation and funny stuff. I always feel planned.
I have this horrible sense of humor where I think discomfort is funny - partly because I experience discomfort a lot, and it's a way of laughing at it and getting a release.
It's hard to lead a cavalry charge if you think you look funny on a horse.
It's funny, when bands or younger musicians ask me: 'So, what does it take to make it?' Well, first explain to me what you mean by 'making it': Do you want to be a rock star or do you want music to be your livelihood?
Every girls' night needs a funny movie and a good conversation about guys! My friends and I also love picking outfits out for each other to try on at slumber parties. It's so fun.
There's a rule of writing: if everything is funny, nothing is funny; if everything is sad, nothing is sad. You want that contrast.
I read the script for Wonder Boys, and I said that was almost perfect, it was so classy, cool and funny. It's a really specific thing. We stuck to it, it turned out good and a lot of people liked it.
I have kind of a funny relationship with movies. I don't have to see the whole movie to get an impression of it or to let it have an influence on me.
And, in a funny way, each death is different and you mourn each death differently and each death brings back the death you mourned earlier and you get into a bit of a pile-up.
Many comedians have a dark side that lets them take a negative thing and turn it funny.
I have a lot of funny friends, though not everyone's funny all the time. Doon Mackichan's my funniest friend in the pub; Nina Conti's the funniest with a monkey.
Maybe people don't see me as believable playing a person of today. I guess I'm just more realistic in a corset and funny hairstyles.
When I was in college, I was in the theater department, which for anyone who has been involved in any kind of theater program, you know that it's really wacky and tight-knit, a real family. Me and my good friends from college would do random shows and plays that were sometimes serious, but most of the time really goofy and funny.
I think being funny is not anyone's first choice.
When I'm being funny, I try not to offend. I don't think much of what I've done has been in really ghastly taste. I don't think I have embarrassed many people or distressed them.
The two things in the world we all share in this world are laughter and pain. We've all got problems. The levels of those problems vary, but we've all got problems. When you can take things that are painful and make them funny, that's a gift - to you and your audience.
Comedy is surprises, so if you're intending to make somebody laugh and they don't laugh, that's funny.
My dad would go to work every day and write in a room full of funny people. He enjoyed it. I know great writers who find the process agonising but to me, writing has always been sheer joy.
It's so different when you change your hair color, you're treated so differently. It's a very funny experience. It's fun - I love changing up my hair.
No, no, I was only funny on stage, really. I, I, think I was funny as a person toward my classmates when I was very young. You know, when I was a child, up to about the age of 12.
It's funny, I'm very analytical in my real life, but in terms of my films, I try to not analyze them at all and let things just go into them and let them be what they are. I mean, people ask me to this day what 'The Squid and the Whale' stood for, and I have no idea except that it's an exhibit in the Natural History Museum.
For sheer sexiness, a man must be beautiful. Funny. yes. Clever, no.
By the way, I'm funniest when I'm not being funny. I'm better to laugh at than with, pretty much.
What was really funny is that as I got older all those guys who called me a sissy in junior high school wanted me to be their best friend because they wanted to meet all the girls that I knew in figure skating.
What other people call dark and despairing, I call funny.
I know my strong points: I work hard, I have talent, I'm funny, and I'm a good person.
I was asked to act when I couldn't act. I was asked to sing 'Funny Face' when I couldn't sing, and dance with Fred Astaire when I couldn't dance - and do all kinds of things I wasn't prepared for. Then I tried like mad to cope with it.
I'm not funny. What I am is brave.
When I'm on stage, it's really intense. My mind is going a million miles an hour, trying to remember my act, trying to say it all the right way. It's funny how different it looks and how it's happening. There are three Fellini circuses in my head, and outwardly it looks like I'm going to get a bagel.
Do you know, it's funny, but I never thought of being blind as a disadvantage, and I never thought of being black as a disadvantage.
What bothers most critics of my work is the goofiness. One reviewer said I need to make up my mind if want to be funny or serious. My response is that I will make up my mind when God does, because life is a commingling of the sacred and the profane, good and evil. To try and separate them is fallacy.
I got attention by being funny at school, pretending to be retarded, and jumping around with a deformed hand.
I find being funny very hard work. I am always asked about it, and I feel guilty saying that, but it's the truth. I love my work, but it ain't easy.
It's funny how social activists usually protest against the only things that have a credible chance of achieving the activists' goals.
I have a rule - 'funny is funny!' When I write comedy, it's not my aim to upset people. I will be offensive, edgy and immature, but I will also be very intelligent and relevant. At my shows, there are no holy cows.
I never understand when people say, 'Do you do comedy or tragedy?' I don't think they're very much different. They both have to be true, and there isn't a great play in the world that doesn't have funny parts to it - as 'Salesman' does, as 'King Lear' does. The whole idea is to reflect life in some way, which means surely you have to have both.
At home in L.A., Sunday is lazy. It's the wife and me lying in bed with coffee, watching 'The Soup' or something funny on TiVo. The kid will occasionally join us. Eventually, breakfast is at a place down the street called Paty's. And we always have some kind of great dinner - my wife makes a great roast beef.
When people say 'Charlie Chaplin' I still think now of the guy in the moustache and bowler hat and funny walk - I don't think of an old man who was my grandfather.
Sometimes I can't believe I'm going to be 60. I always say there's no point moaning about getting older, when there's nothing you can do about it. But still, I do find it quite funny. I look at that number, 60, and I think, 'Really? Me?'
One of the things I like about acting is that, in a funny way, I come back to myself.
I love every minute of fatherhood, staying up all night, changing nappies, kids crying, I find it really funny and inspiring. It connects you to the world in a new way.
I didn't understand key signatures or anything, you know. I'd say silly things at the top of a trumpet part like, 'Note, when you play B naturals, make the B naturals a half step lower because they sound funny if they're B naturals.' And some guy said: 'Idiot, just put a flat on the third line and it's a key signature, you know?'
I call myself the Amusement Park. That's because I'm funny and scary at the same time.
The only guaranteed way to make something not very funny is to make it vague.
It is funny that men who are supposed to be scientific cannot get themselves to realise the basic principle of physics, that action and reaction are equal and opposite, that when you persecute people you always rouse them to be strong and stronger.
Keep your sense of humor, my friend; if you don't have a sense of humor it just isn't funny anymore.
I actually think of being funny as an odd turn of mind, like a mild disability, some weird way of looking at the world that you can't get rid of.
I think a lot of stuff I find funny is from day dreaming.
You know what's funny to me? Attitude.
I get tired of comedies where there are a bunch of funny guys and a beautiful woman who doesn't do anything funny. And I don't like books where there's a rough-and-tumble boy and a really clever, snotty girl. That's just not my experience with teenagers.
Only bad golfers are lucky. They're the ones bouncing balls off trees, curbs, turtles and cars. Good golfers have bad luck. When you hit the ball straight, a funny bounce is bound to be unlucky.
There have been times when I felt suicidal and I would stop my head from going in that direction of negativity because I thought there'd be something I'd miss that was funny in the future. If there's a chance I'm going to laugh tomorrow then want to live to experience that.
I guess when you turn off the main road, you have to be prepared to see some funny houses.
I like bowling. I suck at it, but I like it. You know what's so funny? I have days when I'm absolutely great at doing it, and then I have days when I just don't understand it.
I grew up in a time when women didn't really do comedy. You had to be homely, overweight, an old maid, all that. You had to play a stereotype, because very attractive women were not supposed to be funny - because it's powerful; it's a threat.
'Come out' is so funny to me because I've never been in.
I'm screamingly funny, you know, I really am in the books. And that helps because I'm funnier than a lot of people, I think, and that's appreciated by young people.
It's funny that a lot of the fans of 'Angel' have come over and hung out with me on 'Leverage.' I was so fortunate to have been on that show. It created one of the best fan groups ever. I just have the best fans in the world.
I wear black skinny-fit jeans - I can't get away from them. It's funny because I wore baggy jeans for ages, then one day my friend convinced me to try on a skinny pair and I thought they were great.
Funny, how moms can tell you what to do no matter how old or big you are.
I think 'Saturday Night Live', starting in the 1970s, really gave women an outlet to be funny. A lot of those women went on to have film careers, from Kristen Wiig now to Tina Fey and Gilda Radner.
It's really funny because the same people who loved me as Stringer Bell were the same people that were watching 'Daddy's Little Girls' literally in tears.
What I don't like is when I see stuff that I know has had a lot of improv done or is playing around where there's no purpose to the scene other than to just be funny. What you don't want is funny scene, funny scene, funny scene, and now here's the epiphany scene and then the movie's over.
I always have a funny story at communion time that underscores that no one is perfect, and that communion is not for perfect people but for hungry people.
Often, joking for me is a way of diffusing the awkwardness of a situation, so it's kind of exhilarating to be a part of projects where there's nothing funny or lighthearted.
Comics write to their point of view. If you're an exceedingly irreverent comedian, you've got to see where that point of view fits or produces the most funny.
I realised that if you get yourself labeled as the funny one, people don't look any further. I've used that as I've got older. It's controlling: I decide what part of my personality you're seeing. I don't want you to look at me, I really don't. I don't want you to comment on my clothes, my hair or the way I look.
I'm very lighthearted, outgoing, friendly, and funny, so I like to try new things.
I think it's great to see how they've grown up, not just as actors but as people. They're still very much the same kids that I met many years ago. They've grown up and they are funny and wicked and naughty and bright, and I think as actors their work is just getting better and better. They've blossomed.
I'd love to do a comedy. I'm terrified of comedy. I don't think I'm funny, but I guess that's why it's so thrilling.
The only movie I can watch on a loop, over and over, is 'Help', the Beatles movie. It's so funny and irreverent and great.
Game design is a funny thing. There are people out there who are really good at it, but it's not clear that they can teach it. It's a very intuitive process. It's an art.
Ignoring fame was my rebellion, in a funny way. I was insistent on being normal and doing normal things. It probably wasn't advisable to go to college in America and room with a complete stranger. And it probably wasn't wise to share a bathroom with eight other people in a coed dorm. Looking back, that was crazy.
I think it's one of those funny things - sometimes you're not really friends with somebody until you've gotten into a good fight, and I think that's the situation with Superman and Batman.
Comedy is simply a funny way of being serious.
I'd love to date somebody cool, fun, funny.
Always remember your kid's name. Always remember where you put your kid. Don't let your kid drive until their feet can reach the pedals. Use the right size diapers... for yourself. And, when in doubt, make funny faces.
If you could cross a lion and a monkey, that's what I'd be, because monkeys are funny and lions are strong.
I don't care what the haters and naysayers say. If they make jokes about me, I'll laugh because they'll probably be funny.
You can't really be strong until you see a funny side to things.
Animals are sentient, intelligent, perceptive, funny and entertaining. We owe them a duty of care as we do to children.
Stories in families are colossally important. Every family has stories: some funny, some proud, some embarrassing, some shameful. Knowing them is proof of belonging to the family.
I just recently joined Twitter. It's very positive - I love all the accolades. If my ego is hurting, I can just open my Twitter account and see 'Oh, I love you! I love the show!' and it's great. I'm trying to find the balance between trying to be funny, being honest and just being a promoter as the guy on 'Royal Pains.'
All you can do is really the prep work and make sure you're ready to hit each golf shot. Outside of that, you're not sure really what's going to happen. It's a funny game, but I think that's why I love it. You never know, one day to the next; you could go shoot 62, and the next day you're going to shoot 78, and you can't predict it.
It's always funny until someone gets hurt. Then it's just hilarious.
Life goes by fast. Enjoy it. Calm down. It's all funny. Next. Everyone gets so upset about the wrong things.
I never smoked. I never drank and I never took drugs. The funny thing is, nothing is more boring, people like this. For me, it's OK. But most of my friends, at least they smoke and drink.
Yes, we do defend our office as we do defend our homes. This is a constitutional right everybody has, and nothing's funny about that. The only reason they get mad at the Black Panther Party when you do it is for the simple reason that we're political.
There's only one true superpower amongst human beings, and that is being funny. People treat you differently if you can make them laugh.
It's not so much what you learn about Mumbai, it's what you learn about yourself, really. It's a funny old hippie thing, but it's true as well. You find out a lot about yourself and your tolerance, and about your inclusiveness.
Before, I guess, mum and dad were everything, but now, in my case, I had two new girls and all of a sudden they're completely dependent on you and there's a third generation. It's a funny shift all of a sudden. You have the babies, you have yourself and then you have your parents.
Phil Hartman was brilliant, and Dave Foley is a really funny guy. Phil Hartman was actually even funnier offstage than he was onstage because he would say nasty things. Dave Foley's very funny, very witty guy, very quick.
I'm not that good looking. That's why 'Gangnam Style' works. If someone handsome uses that phrase it's just awkward. But if someone like me uses it, it's funny.
Here is my prescription to heal all wounds. Watch the film 'Funny Girl' at least five times, eat at least 45 chocolate bars, and hang out with all those friends you blew off to hang out with your ex. I truly believe that, through a combination of Nutella, old pals and Barbra Streisand, we can achieve happiness and, very probably, world peace.
Sometimes I am so dry that people don't know I'm kidding and think I'm being serious. I enjoy this because their reactions are often funny.
If you are truly offended by an 80-year-old man saying you're not funny, then you're probably not funny.
I remember listening to the radio as a kid and finding that the songs always made me feel more peaceful. Funny, but the more hurtin' the music was, the better it made me feel. I think of that now when I write my songs. I may not be feelin' the blues myself, but I'm writing them for other people who have a hard life.
To handle that stardom, the red carpets, the photo shoots, people all of a sudden recognizing you and following you in everyday life, it's a bit weird. It's strange, and it can have funny effects on you in terms of do you like it or don't you like it. Some people run away from it, some people embrace it; I found a good middle ground.
To all the girls out there who think being funny is not sexy, you are wrong!
There's been a lot of coming home in the early mornings after funny nights out, having bizarre sandwiches in bed.
Being a humorist is not a voluntary thing. You can tell this because in a situation where saying a funny thing will cause a lot of trouble, a humorist will still say the funny thing. No matter how inappropriate.
Wikipedia is just an incredible thing. It is fact-encirclingly huge, and it is idiosyncratic, careful, messy, funny, shocking and full of simmering controversies - and it is free, and it is fast.
Isn't it funny how babies laugh a lot? I read a toddler, a young child laughs 300 times a day. The average adult laughs, like, four times a day. God put it in them. He put the laugh in us, but I think sometimes we let life get us down, you know, have bad breaks, and we lose our breaks.
Is everything funny? For me, yes. There's a positive to every negative. Even my divorce? For me, yes. If you go back and look at it, why it happened or how it happened, there's something in there that'll make you laugh.
Life was a funny thing that happened to me on the way to the grave.
Don't send funny greeting cards on birthdays or at Christmas. Save them for funerals, when their cheery effect is needed.
What I like about the jokes, to me it's a lot of logic, no matter how crazy they are. It has to make absolute sense, or it won't be funny.
There's always something funny about men chasing women.
My parents are both very funny but they're also relatively soft-spoken, normal human beings while I'm just a lunatic. I don't know where this loud, ballsy, hammy ridiculousness came from. I'm just glad I followed my goals and my parents did too. It's not like we even had a plan when I dragged my mom to Los Angeles.
I don't know why I get away with some things. But I'm not a misogynistic, racist person. Yet I do find those jokes funny, so I say them. And I try to say everything kind of in a good spirit.
I think stutterers are funny. And I know it's rude and politically incorrect to laugh at stutterers. But I think it is okay because I know why they're funny. They make people nervous. People think, when on earth are they going to get the word out, so they start laughing out of their own nervousness.
James Caan told me at the end of filming 'Elf' that he had been waiting through the whole film for me to be funny - and I never was.
For a Catholic kid in parochial school, the only way to survive the beatings - by classmates, not the nuns - was to be the funny guy.
I wanted to be that quirky girl who writes funny songs that still have meaning.
Alien Chutney is just what the name suggests it is. Its music that is so funny and quirky and weird that it feels entirely alien to the listener; yet, the content and the subject matter is so Indian and relatable, it's still chutney.
The best thing you can do when you're not feeling funny is go out and get more stimuli from the world, get out and walk around, read a book, go talk to some birds or a dog and replenish the well, as it were.
I've experienced plenty of times when something I think is funny doesn't do very well. And there are times when something I don't think is funny makes the audience laugh so hard.
I love funny people. I met and became friends with some of the funniest people ever. Gilda Radner, bless her soul; Martin Short; Dave Thomas; Eugene Levy.
As soon as you are trying to be funny or dramatic, that's when things start feeling fake and boring.
I like cartoons. I like 'Foster's Home for Imaginary Friends.' It's funny! It has things that kids wouldn't get. It's like, if you're mature, you get it. I like that and 'The Fairly OddParents.'
If you take a bunch of superstars and put them in a room where they don't have their assistants and entourage, it's funny to see what happens.
I could party in a cardboard box with people who are funny and don't care. For me, it's really about who I surround myself with, so I just try to always be with hilarious people.
I've always surrounded myself with funny people.
Everyone has at least one story, and each of us is funny if we admit it. You have to admit you're the funniest person you've ever heard of.
A lot of newspaper columns used to be written in a rat-a-tat-tat, fast-paced style - and they tended to be funny. They were a little relief from the grimmer, grayer parts of the newspaper, and one of the best people at doing this was Will Rogers.
If you tell the truth about how you're feeling, it becomes funny.
You win a race, the next race it's a question mark. Are you still the best or not? That's what is funny. But that's what is interesting. And that's what is challenging. You have to prove yourself every time.
I read a funny story about how the Republicans freed the slaves. The Republicans are the ones who created slavery by law in the 1600's. Abraham Lincoln freed the slaves and he was not a Republican.
I don't think of myself as funny - I don't fill up a room with my humor... I would fail miserably as a stand-up comedian.
I'm opening up my heart to the idea of dating. It's funny - my friends would always come to me for romantic advice. I know nothing, and things have changed since I was dating in high school! I'm really trying hard to spend this time working on myself.
I've always enjoyed watching characters that aren't aware that they're doing anything funny. And I think that inherently makes them funnier.
There are a lot of really funny guys who are very natural in what they do: Jonah Hill, Michael Cera, Seth Rogen.
I know you can be funny without being filthy.
I had to act in a school play when I was about ten years old. I really didn't want to do it. But everyone had to do it so I didn't have a choice. A talent agent came and watched it and later gave me some work. It's funny because I'd always known that I wanted a movie career. I just didn't think that I would be in the movies.
The tour bus is always fun, and there's plenty of time to watch movies. Actually, Kanye introduced me to the movie 'Step Brothers.' We were sitting there, watching it and clowning around - it was so funny, man.
But I think once the word gets out that the movie is funny - funny is transcendent - it will traverse all demographic barriers if people embrace it as a funny movie.
Can someone's true value really be estimated? Maybe there needs to be an Edmunds.com for people on TV. That would be funny and possibly cruel.
I am so like Donna it's funny. And most of my friends are guys too.
We try to make the name longer and longer every year. First, it was 'Larry the Cable Guy's Christmas Spectacular.' Then it was 'It's a Very Larry Christmas.' Now it's 'Larry the Cable Guy's Hula-palooza Christmas Luau.' I'll tell you what it is: It's funny. That's what it is. Who cares what the name of it is? It is a funny special.
It's funny, but when I arrived in California to start college I was much more interested in becoming a surfer and cruise along in life from one beach to the next. I didn't plan out any huge career for myself.
Turns out you have a really fun time if you go to work every day and focus on being silly and funny and happy!
A lot of the tabloid stories are written so well, they're very clever and very funny. But you have to focus on what's really important and not read them - don't dive into it and don't get caught up in it.
The funny thing about war is that people feel you need to be morally outraged. I feel morally outraged about it, and I've been doing it for long enough to feel morally outraged, because I have been in massacre scenes in West Africa, and I've been doing this for a long time now.
My dad was in the army so we moved around a lot and I changed schools every year and had to make new friends, and I found that if I was the funny guy I could do that easier.
What does being a woman today mean? Is there a right way of doing it? Is there a wrong way of doing it? Different kinds of women, female friendships: It's all pretty funny, and worth making fun of.
It's funny how it usually works out that I end up dying. It sort of works out, because by the time I die, I'm usually tired of working on that particular movie, so I look forward to it.
It's funny how the ruthless, murderous gangster has really been romanticized by the media. I mean, I grew up watching the 'Godfathers' and 'Scarface,' and they were the coolest. They're just really interesting stories with great characters. They're rock stars.
How can you analyse what is funny? What's funny to one isn't funny to another... What's funny to you is a personal thing.
You know, I've always thought that it would be really funny if somebody made a romantic comedy where absolutely everything went well from beginning to end.
I'm half Jewish, I'm half black, I look in-between. I dress funny. I play all these different styles of music on one record. It's like, What is he doing?
The shooting of the guns, that was kind of funny, because rolling a cigarette and shooting a gun aren't like normal things for a 13-year old girl!
People forget how outcast 'They Might Be Giants' can be. They have a reputation for writing really deft, funny, clever melodies, and they also make a lot of music for kids, which is terrific, but when you see them in concert, they can rock the house.
Viral videos aren't just about being funny. They're about identity creation.
Eyebrows are really important because they structure the face. In school it was funny because I was always the one walking around with tweezers plucking my girlfriends' eyebrows. I was really good; eyebrow tweezing runs in my family - my mother used to do mine, and I picked it up.
Funny enough, if you are looking at people these days who are putting Botox in their face and getting all sorts of plastic surgery, we look at them and go, I can tell you've had Botox. I can tell you've had plastic surgery. You look really strange to me. But no one's saying anything. We're just accepting the fact that they're strange-looking.
That's a funny thing, fame. People definitely do treat you differently. When you begin to be successful, people say, 'Don't go changing.' Well, that's easy to say, but the fact is, you don't change at all - other people do.
Being funny with a funny voice is more my comfort zone, a broader character that I try to humanize, a kind of silly or wacky persona that I try to fill in.
I'm, like, super-clumsy and weird and funny and dorky.
I was born in Paris in the mid-1960s, and by the time I was 12 I had started going to the movies by myself. Most of the movies of that period never appealed to me. I didn't like the 'naturalism,' the sad or the 'down-to-earth' characters. What I wanted from film was fantasy, dreams, funny situations, extravagant decor - and beautiful women.
I mean, I'm married first of all to one of, if not the most wonderful women in the world. She is everything - funny, attractive, hard-working, she has integrity, she loves me to bits.
A man's got to take a lot of punishment to write a really funny book.
Democrats are dumb and Republicans are stupid, but the difference between dumb and stupid is dumb isn't funny. Dumb is when you say something and the whole room goes, 'What did he say?'
Don't remember me as too nice or beautiful or funny, because then you'll be disappointed.
As a kid, I thought of myself as a funny person who secretly wanted to be serious, but now I think maybe I'm a serious person who secretly wants to be funny.
Someone said to me at a party once, 'Oh, yeah, you're a comedian? Then how come you're not funny now?' And I just wanted to say, 'Well, I'm just going to take this conversation we're having and then repeat that to strangers, and then that's the joke. You're the joke later.'
The fact is I'm choosy, but mainly about a man's character. He has to be interesting, funny and clever. I don't even mind if he's not very good-looking.
I think for me, the thing that gets me in the right mindset is just watching something funny, something light, something that makes me feel good. Regardless of what it is - when you feel good, when you feel upbeat, creativity flows!
It's a funny thing when you think you're dead. You're not terrified of it anymore. There's a sort of a epiphany to religious thing; it's not sort of church-based, but you end up with a serenity which you didn't have before, and I just simply enjoy it. It really does sound stupid, but I've got to tell you it's made my life.
The funny thing is musicians often love to go to see visual art because you've got all these pictures to turn into metaphors.
When I have had a long day at work, I want something to watch that is funny, lighthearted and easy to get into, and reality is that. I'm not really into serious programmes or documentaries.
That's something - you laugh about Eminem... It's funny, man, because I didn't like him when he first came out, ya know. It seemed like a big joke. But I think the guy's for real, and I like his lyrics!
But the funny thing is, I broke my finger not on set doing kung fu. I broke my finger when I fell down the stairs prior to going on set.
The 'Billionaire' song is what my kids tease me with. They sing it to me. It's funny.
They say Yogi Berra is funny. Well, he has a lovely wife and family, a beautiful home, money in the bank, and he plays golf with millionaires. What's funny about that?
I love readings and my readers, but the din of voices of the audience gives me stage fright, and the din of voices inside whisper that I am a fraud, and that the jig is up. Surely someone will rise up from the audience and say out loud that not only am I not funny and helpful, but I'm annoying, and a phony.
With all singers, insecurity is your best security. That's why we're such loud people and why we walk all funny. You think, 'Are people interested?' But I think our band has something and they know we don't just put albums out. We do think about it.
It's funny, I never considered that people are going to see me on the show and maybe stop me on the subway.
I'm good at coming up with wacky characters and funny dialogue.
There is nothing funny about a well-adjusted, intelligent person making the right choices.
I would really like to do a really cool one-hour show, maybe on, like, HBO or something like that; or something that I've spent a couple of years developing so it would be exactly the character and exactly in with a huge push behind it; or I would maybe want to do a sitcom; something light and funny.
Sylvester Stallone is very funny and he's a great guy to hang out with.
At the end of the day I'm writing comedy. If you get too realistic as a comedy writer with your disasters, it stops being funny.
Lot of ugly funny dudes end up with some pretty gorgeous women. Women are much deeper than us in choosing a mate - they see in the long term.
It's really funny - when I'm depressed or I'm having a hard time, I'll write really fun stuff. And then when I'm really happy, I write really depressing stuff.
I don't know, maybe Australian humour isn't supposed to be funny. It's as dry as the Sahara, and I think people miss that.
It's funny, because in 1970 I met the Beatles quite by a chance at a party. It was the Beethoven bicentenary, and I was then also playing the Beethoven Sonatas. And that's all they wanted to hear about - I wanted to talk about them, and all they wanted to talk about was Beethoven.
There is hope for the future because God has a sense of humor and we are funny to God.
The funny guy doesn't get the girl until later in life. High school, college, everyone still wants the brooding, dangerous guy you shouldn't have.
I find it funny how people from Boston and New York hate each other because of pro teams. But, like, everyone on the Red Sox is a random millionaire athlete from somewhere else.
Life can be dramatic and funny all in the same day.
I realized my family was funny, because nobody ever wanted to leave our house.
No one wants to read a story where I saw a cute puppy on the street and I petted it. I mean, that's not funny. I only write about the funny stuff.
I know I'm funny, because I'm eccentric, I'm odd. I'm not what you expect.
I think Irish women are strong as horses, incredibly loyal and for the most part, funny, witty, bright and optimistic in the face of devastating reality.
As a writer, or as a filmmaker, you have to present yourself, and part of what yourself is is what you're interested in, or what you think is funny, or what you think is sad, or what you think is horrible.
It's a funny old world.
Whatever is funny is subversive, every joke is ultimately a custard pie... a dirty joke is a sort of mental rebellion.
It's funny the way most people love the dead. Once you are dead, you are made for life.
When I was a kid, I never did funny things to get attention. I was never a funny person. I was never, like, 'Oh, wow. I could say this some day on stage.'
I think anyone who's perfectly happy isn't particularly funny.
I'm odd looking. Sometimes I think I look like a funny muppet.
I remember straightening my hair because I wanted to be like everybody else, and now the fact that anybody would emulate what I do? It's just funny.
It's funny when people say, 'I don't think Julia likes me.' Honey, if I don't like you, you're going to know about it.
There are certain sorts of jokes which have only to do with the substitution of the unexpected word in a familiar context. If you translated something into French and then had it translated back into English by somebody who didn't know the original, you'd lose what was funny.
You need to be silly to be funny.
At the end of the day it's got to be a good movie, it's got to be a funny movie, and it's got to make people think, 'Hey, I couldn't have spent my time any better.'
Sometimes in the most tragic situation, something just profoundly funny happens.
A good artist is willing to die many times over. What's funny is, I've died so many times.
It's funny. You succeed, but now where are you gonna go from there? I've got to keep proving that I can laugh or cry more real each time.
I gave a funny speech at my wife's birthday party, and I'm thinking, 'Hey, I've still got it.'
Almost anything can be funny if said the right way - but it has to be said the right way.
Cheech and I used to call ourselves musicians; we never called ourselves comedians. We were musicians that were funny.
I do like dating cynics - they tend to be incredibly funny.
Laurence Olivier said in an interview once that when he plays a tragedy he always aims for the funny parts, and the other way around. Because in a comedy you look for what's serious. I think that's true. Sometimes things are really funny if you're absolutely earnest. If you're really serious, it's hilarious.
I was lucky. My family is wonderful. And it's funny, because most of my best friends come from very large families. So it always felt as if I had lots of siblings, though in the end I had to leave them and go home. I kind of got the best of both worlds as a kid.
Funny things tend not to happen to me. I am not a natural comic. I need to think about things a lot before I can be even remotely amusing.
I don't like forcing comedy and people just trying to do things just to find a funny beat all the time.
The funny thing is that I'm the girl who no one sees at the beach. Ask anyone who's traveled with me. Normally, I'm in so many layers, I look like Lawrence of Arabia!
Being mean just for being mean's sake isn't funny.
Paul Taylor's 'Offenbach Overtures' has lots of zip and charm, and its pair of dueling soldiers in red, who end up starry-eyed about each other while their disgusted seconds take up the quarrel, is nonstop funny.
I just love carbs. And when I'm on vacation I definitely allow myself carbs, so it's always funny when people are like, 'Oh my gosh, you look great in your bikini.' I'm like, 'If you only knew what I had for breakfast!'
It's funny, I get a little quieter with time. I don't want to chase my tail and one day repeat myself and repeat myself and one day have kids going to college and not have memories that I should, because I was too busy doing my thing.
I am the ultimate California girl, which is funny, being that I'm Canadian.
Stealing, you'll go far in life. Actually, there is something funny about getting away with it.
I don't really have funny things to say about politics. I wish I did, but I don't.
And write what you love - don't feel pressured to write serious prose if what you like is to be funny.
You never saw Peter Sellers the actor trying to make you laugh. All he was doing was the character. What I'm saying is that I don't think you should know you're in a movie. I don't like it when actors are winking at the audience and saying, 'Right, isn't this funny? Are you with me?'
I giggle when I put myself down. It's just funny to me.
It's funny how I use social media because I don't use it to promote my restaurants that much. I use it for social issues and I think that's what it's for. I do a few things - I mess around with music a lot because that's a passion of mine. If something strikes me and I want to share it, I do.
Working for President Nixon was the most extraordinary professional experience of my life. He was endlessly fascinating: brilliant, visionary, kind, generous, warm, funny - and yes, a good man.
I'd love to become like Bill Murray, who was so funny on 'Saturday Night Live' and has gone on to do some of the landmark comedies people like. And then to add this whole other phase to his career with 'Lost in Translation' and 'Rushmore.' I always felt to be able to have something similar to that would be great.
Sometimes, comics will make the observation that it's not jokes that are funny, it's characters that are funny. And isn't that true! That's why I always kill jokes. I'm terrible at them, because I get the joke right, but I can't get the character right, and it just goes down like a lead balloon.
I owe my whole acting career to the fact that I'm a singer. I went out to Los Angeles and auditioned for a TV show called 'Fame L.A.' The original role was for a comedian, but they said I wasn't very funny, so they asked me, 'What else can you do?' So I played a singer.
I like to make jokes; I consider myself a funny person. I just think making jokes about people who are in a situation beyond their control is not funny to them or their families.
So that's why one of my rules of parody writing is that it's gotta be funny regardless of whether you know the source material. It has to work on its own merit.
I don't think I am particularly funny. In fact, I know I'm not.
Porsche is a driver's car - a performance car. That was funny - here's this awesome car, but it's got no cup holders.
What am I responsible for? Who am I responsible to? Everybody? How come when Archie Bunker nailed everybody, it was funny - but when I do it, it's not?
There's a darkness under 'The Hangover' because ultimately there's a missing person and it's not really that funny. There's a sort of darkness under it that I love, and still people are laughing as hard if not harder than they did in 'Old School.'
Twitter's a funny one. I mean, it's good in some respects, but I can't stand it in other respects. You know there are too many opinions, people get opinions mixed up, and people get being rude mixed up with 'that's my opinion.'
It's funny because I remember when I came to the U.S. with 'Swimming Pool,' the movie did well, and it was great box office for a French movie, but I remember I was a bit upset because all people talked to me about was the nudity.
It's interesting - I always thought when I was doing more melodramatic stuff like 'Everwood' that the directors were constantly reeling me in and stopping me from being funny.
My mother is very funny. She is from a village; she has a typical village kind of humour. Often she says a lot of things she herself isn't aware is a punch line.
I'll stick to finding the funny in the ordinary because my life is pretty ordinary and so are the lives of my friends - and my friends are hilarious.
Don't make being a girl or a victim part of your stand-up act. If you encounter sexism in the business, don't bring it on stage; it's not funny.
The only time I get sick of making people laugh is when I'm in a non-writing-joke mode, and I just can't seem to come up with anything new that's funny. That's a tough place to be as a comedian.
You know, it wasn't even that I'm a funny guy, I just loved stand-up comedy and I wanted to do it. It was one of the few things in my life that I knew I was going to be able to do, and I also felt as though I'd be able to do it the way I wanted to do it.
I'm mourning with the rest of the world for the talented, gorgeous, funny, intelligent John Forsythe but my heart is broken for the loss of my dear, dear friend and neighbor. I will miss him terribly.
With my boyfriend, we can make sexist jokes to each other because we know it's absolutely not true. If I get home from a long day and he says: 'Go on, get in the kitchen,' it's funny because we know it's not our lives.
I had a strong vision for 'The Best Man Holiday,' so I was able to translate that to the actors and ultimately to the screen. Things can't get too heavy or too outrageously funny; it has to strike a balance. Tone is everything. If you've set the right tone, you can get away with a lot of stuff. You can get away with making people cry.
I guess when I think about it, one of the things I like to dramatise, and what is sometimes funny, is someone coming unglued. I don't consider myself someone who is making the argument that I support these choices. I just think it can be funny.
My friends and family always thought I was pretty funny, but I don't know if they thought I was get-my-own-show funny.
I think you figure out how to be funny by necessity. It's not a natural thing, being funny in the face of tragedy is kind of demented.
I am a candid interview and I have a dark and dry sense of humor - a very Canadian sense of humor and I am only learning now stupidly that you can't read tongue. When I say something funny in a newspaper and I meant it to be funny, it doesn't read that way.
When I was in high school, I was a bad singer. I mean, all my early acting was musical theater, and my first ever show was 'Jesus Christ Superstar.' Everyone's familiar with it. I played priest number 3 and sang so out of tune that it's not even funny.
Making movies was a real weird kind of adult experience. In a way it was like MIT, in that it was a great education. The big lesson is, people are people. They're smart, funny, creative people, but they're people.
I trained at The Groundlings and was surrounded by some very funny women and also some very unfunny men. I didn't feel a sense of things being different because I was a girl.
It's funny - when you look at the real A-listers nowadays, look at how many live in and around Hollywood. Most of them live on a ranch in Utah. It's no coincidence these guys get in and get out.
Anyone who thinks they can write the perfect comedy that everyone will love is a fool. I can only write what I think is funny and hope that there is a likeminded audience out there.
For people who have done comedy after a certain point in time, I think there's a base level of, 'O.K., I think I'm decently funny.' But unless you just have some massive ego, I really think you're still fighting against that.
Let's face it: It's difficult enough to be funny without worrying about what is going to offend whom.
It find it funny how people from Boston and New York hate each other because of pro teams.
It's kind of low brow, but the show 'Bob's Burgers' is hilarious, and being from the Midwest, I can kind of relate to a lot of the jokes. 'Orange is The New Black' is a Netflix Exclusive, I think - that's really funny.
You know, the funny thing about Lorne and that show is that, you can go over one million things, but in a business of bean counters, he still likes to laugh at small things and creates a show around it.
Selling wine is all about sizing people up, and it takes a certain amount of chutzpah. The tableside bottle sell is a very funny thing - you take a look at the guy's blazer, what kind of shoes he's wearing, what kind of broad he's with. Is he trying to be a hero?
Filming is a funny combination of having a good time and not being able to wait until it's over.
I love funny women. I love writing funny women characters.
Let's make some funny pictures.
I remember my fourth grade teacher reading 'Charlotte's Web' and 'Stuart Little' to us - both, of course, by E. B. White. His stories were genuinely funny, thought provoking and full of irony and charm. He didn't condescend to his readers, which was why I liked his books, and why I wasn't a big reader of other children's' books.
It's a bit like school camp, shooting a film. Everyone's on heat. It's a strange energy. It's full of adrenalin. I funnel my excess energy in funny little ways. I do a lot of dancing in my trailer. I love music.
I used to stutter really badly. Everybody thinks it's funny. And it's not funny. It's not.
It's funny: people who meet me say, 'I thought you'd be different.' But I'm still the same guy.
I play these sort of comical instruments I invented, like the electric rake and the electric plunger. I do a lot of almost stand-up comedy material. Just the juxtaposition of the different styles in itself sometimes is funny. Like, I do sort of an acoustic version of 'Purple Haze' that has some bluegrass licks in it.
Life does not cease to be funny when people die any more than it ceases to be serious when people laugh.
The follow your dreams thing is really important because so many people are railroaded into taking other paths by their family, their friends, people who should be supportive going, 'What are you talking about?' Even just seemingly regular career paths, but if it's not what people expect for you they kind of react funny.
If you're going to tell people the truth, be funny or they'll kill you.
Acting is all about big hair and funny props... All the great actors knew it. Olivier knew it, Brando knew it.
British politics, as the world knows, is a joke. Yet it's rarely funny.
I direct with energy. I believe in energy. I think energy is an electric thing in actors. I try to inspire, encourage, and make choices with lots of energy. And truth. I'm big fan of truth and being funny. I like leading 50 people into battle every day.
I don't follow anything blindly. I have to know the entire thing, if I have to get in to it. It might sound funny to you, but it's like using English language. I use an English word only when I know its meaning and understand its connotation. You won't hear me say, 'What's up, dude' or anything like that just for the heck of it.
I think maybe I became funny because as a kid, I was a Jew in a town of no Jews, and being funny just instinctively came about as a way to put people at ease around me.
When I turned about 12 or 13, I realised that being funny wasn't about remembering jokes. It was about creating them.
The difference between you and the funny person on TV is that they acted on their ideas.
I started writing when I was 9 years old. I was like this weird kid who would just stay in my room, typing little funny magazines and drawing comic strips.
There are so many funny women in the world, and there has been for so many years, so I'll be happy when people can just move on from that, and things can just be 'comedies' and not 'female' or 'male,' and everyone gets an equal opportunity.
Justin Timberlake is everything, and what more could you want in a person? He's funny. He's cute. He's great. He just understands. I get him and he gets me, and that's cool.
Old white guys can be a funny bunch, can't they? The same anti-same-sex marriage, anti-affirmative action cadre can flower into the biggest supporters of 'equality' the minute they get a whiff of minority empowerment.
That's why I like to get out there, and get people to see the other side of Mitt, and know us in a different reflection when you see the family and how funny he is with the boys and with the grandkids. And you know, just what a super guy he is. That's part of what I am doing, is letting people see the other side of Mitt.
'Funny Games' was conceived as a provocation. My other films are different. If people feel my other films are, or respond to them as provocation, then that's quite different. 'Funny Games' is the only one of mine where my intention was to provoke the audience.
Memory is funny. Once you hit a vein the problem is not how to remember but how to control the flow.
I don't write literary fiction - I write books that are entertaining, but are also, I hope, well-constructed and thoughtful and funny and have things to say about men and women and families and children and life in America today.
I'm not too keen on jokes that are one-liners. I want the situation to be funny.
The townspeople outside the reservations had a very superior attitude toward Indians, which was kind of funny, because they weren't very wealthy; they were on the fringes of society themselves.
Like almost everyone who uses e-mail, I receive a ton of spam every day. Much of it offers to help me get out of debt or get rich quick. It would be funny if it weren't so exciting.
Do I like being thought of as attractive? I don't know anyone on Earth who doesn't, but I do find it funny.
I don't mean to sound - I don't want it to come out funny, but I don't like show business. I love - I love acting in films. I love it.
When human judgment and big data intersect there are some funny things that happen.
It used to be that you had to make female TV characters perfect so no one would be offended by your 'portrayal' of women. Even when I started out on 'The Office' eight years ago, we could write our male characters funny and flawed, but not the women. And now, thankfully, it's completely different.
Usually, if I think something is really funny, I'm not gonna test it. I'll just test it when I'm onstage.
The funny thing about history is that we imagine that people didn't laugh in the old days, but of course they did, at stupid things.
I really like 'Gladiator.' I like 'The Dark Knight.' I really liked, when I was a kid, 'U.S. Marshalls.' I like funny movies, too. 'Old School' and 'The Hangover.' 'The Hangover' was up there; I liked it.
I don't know if you know you're funny, but you enjoy being funny. I know I'm funny because people tell me I am, but when I watch myself, it doesn't make me laugh. Does that make sense? Because I know the jokes, and to me, I feel like I'm pulling the wool over people's eyes. And there are probably people who do not enjoy what I do.
My mama never wore a pair of pants when I was growing up, and now that's all she wears. It was so funny for me when I first started seeing Mama wear pants. It was like it wasn't Mama. Now I've bought her many a pantsuit because she just lives in them.
It's funny. All you have to do is say something nobody understands and they'll do practically anything you want them to.
It's a funny feeling to work with people who you consider your colleagues and to realize that they actually are young enough to be your children.
The funny thing is, all my friends are short. I wasn't aware of tall people till I got to high school. I didn't know they existed. I was sheltered.
I was doing sketches that were funny but socially irresponsible. I felt I was deliberately being encouraged and I was overwhelmed.
I've never been to a dinner party where everyone at the dinner table didn't say something funny.
You could knock my teeth out and break my nose, and there'd be something funny about it to me.
It's funny; it's a real balancing act. In TV, everybody's talking about authenticity. In order to make 'Dirty Jobs' authentic, I really can't be overly informed. The minute I am, I become a host... It's a very tricky business paying a tribute to work, because TV is very bad at it.
Girls don't poop, so don't claim you do. You can fart - because farting is funny - but we don't want to know that you poop.
I like funny guys and those, for some reason, tend to be nerdy guys.
It's so funny, you go to acting school thinking you're going to learn how to be other people, but really it taught me how to be myself. Because it's in understanding yourself deeply that you can lend yourself to another person's circumstances and another person's experience.
Everyone tells me I have a funny accent. It's because I copy people. I learned English at school but have best friends who are French, Australian, English and American; a very weird mix.
It's funny, I had dinner with my dear friend John Spencer last night and I'm not in the first episode, but he's at the beginning of it and he was telling me about it and I thought this sounds very hot because I think this is definitely the last year of West Wing.
A funny thing happens in real estate. When it comes back, it comes back up like gangbusters.
It's funny how the music industry is enraged about the Internet and the way things are copied without being paid for. But you know why people steal the music? Because they can't afford the music.
I think if they put a laugh track on 'Intervention,' it would be funny.
I can't be funny if my feet don't feel right.
I was foreign and Jewish, with a funny name, and was very small and hated sport, a real problem at an English prep school. So the way to get round it was to become the school joker, which I did quite effectively - I was always fooling around to make the people who would otherwise dump me in the loo laugh.
I had a terrible time hiring rich people. It sounds funny, but the problem is when things go wrong they can ask, 'Why am I doing this?' You don't ever want anybody asking that question. You want them to say, 'I know why I'm doing it, I need the money, let's go' or whatever it is that draws them.
It's funny: I always, as a high school teacher and particularly as a high school yearbook teacher, because yearbook staffs are 90 percent female, I got to sit in and overhear teenage girl talk for many years. I like teenage girls; I like their drama, their foibles. And I think, 'I'll be good with a teenage daughter!'
I was not particularly bright, I wasn't very athletic, I was a little too tall, odd, funny looking, I was just really weird as a kid.
I find, when you're an optimist, life has a funny way of looking after you.
Funny is only something that others know about you - you can't be funny by yourself.
If you're funny, if there's something that makes you laugh, then every day's going to be okay.
Cheryl Cole and Katy Perry are two of the hottest girls in the world - and so normal and funny with it. If I was a few years older they are the kind of girls I'd like to date. I want a younger version of Cheryl and Katy - a mixture of the two would be hot.
I have seen and heard comedians who had really funny 'stuff' but yet could not make the people laugh; then, again - I have seen others whose stuff was anything but humorous, and the audience would howl with laughter.
I just developed my act way back in the late '80s. I went to college in Georgia, so I picked up the Southern accent. I talked like that with my friends all the time, because it was fun. It was funny... All my friends were real Southern. We're buddies, so I'd say stuff to make them laugh. So that was pretty much it.
Being a stand-up is my mission in life; it's my passion. My ongoing goal is to simply be funny, on my own, in front of a roomful of strangers.
All you have in comedy, in general, is just going with your instincts. You can only hope that other people think that what you think is funny is funny. I don't have an answer but I just try to plough straight ahead.
Latinos, Asians, African-Americans, women - we're all trying to find our place in this world of cinema and television and theater. And the great thing with comedy is that most of the time, you could be orange. It doesn't matter, as long you're funny.
The reason why you know more funny dudes than funny chicks is that dudes are funnier than chicks. If my daughter has a mediocre sense of humor, I'm just gonna tell her, 'Be a staff writer for a sitcom. Because they'll have to hire you, they can't really fire you, and you don't have to produce that much. It'll be awesome.'
I always felt that it was easier to take a funny person and teach them to write television than to take somebody who was a television writer and make them funny. And I discovered a lot of great writers that went on to do a lot of great shows like 'Seinfeld,' 'Friends,' you know, 'Three and a Half Men.'
With improv, it's a combination of listening and not trying to be funny.
Funny is not a color. Being black is only good from the time you get from the curtain to the microphone.
I always thought it would be funny to have the Parents Television Council write an episode of 'Family Guy' and give them full creative control. Then see how good the episode is. That's something we've actually discussed in the writers' room. We haven't proposed it yet, but if somebody from the PTC reads this, it might be worth discussing.
I was just a ham since about the age of five. If I was performing at Medieval Times or something, I'd be the court jester. That was always my defense mechanism. I was never all that funny; I was just obnoxious and loud.
I don't mean to be funny.
But you can't focus on things that matter if all you've been is asleep for forty years. Funny how sleep rhymes with sheep. You know.
God writes a lot of comedy... the trouble is, he's stuck with so many bad actors who don't know how to play funny.
It's funny how you never think about the women you've had. It's always the ones who get away that you can't forget.
Comediennes are the lucky ones, because if you're funny, you can be 125 years old and they will still accept you.
I love practical jokes and humor. That there's frankly no joke that I don't think is funny. I love practical jokes, but I don't like being scared.
I thought 'Borat' was a breakthrough comedy, because it was really funny. It wasn't some studio-produced script with 14 writers.
I look out at the stadiums full of people and see them all knowing the words to songs I wrote. And curling their hair! I remember straightening my hair because I wanted to be like everybody else, and now the fact that anybody would emulate what I do? It's just funny. And wonderful.
I've always believed that there are funny people everywhere, but they're just not comedians. In fact, some of my best comedic inspirations were not professional entertainers.
Sixth grade was a big time, in my childhood, of hoops and friendship, and coming up with funny things.
'Dirty Rotten Scoundrels' is a good one because it not only turned out, I think, to be a really funny movie but it was also a delight to shoot. We were in the South of France, working with Glenne Headly and Michael Caine and Frank Oz the director - who were just fun.
I'm good at being funny.
We're a phenomenally snobby society, and it's such a rich seam. The middle class is so funny: it's the class I know best, and it's the class where you find the most pretension, so that's what makes the middle classes so funny.
When you're out of sight for as long as I was, there's a funny feeling of betrayal that comes over people when they see you again.
Show me one guy or woman as funny as Rodney Dangerfield or as good as George Carlin, Richard Pryor, Bill Cosby, or Joan Rivers. There are a lot of good comics out there, no doubt, but as far as the quality of the comics goes, I think what you have is a bunch of situational comics.
It's funny, one of the reasons why I never wear my glasses any more is that, when I was younger, a guy once said that he liked me until he found out that I wear glasses.
I tend to head for what's amusing because a lot of things aren't happy. But usually you can find a funny side to practically anything.
From my perspective, probably women are won over by people who are sweet and respectful and courteous and kind and funny. I think those are the things that win women over.
Boston is actually the capital of the world. You didn't know that? We breed smart-ass, quippy, funny people. Not that I'm one of them. I just sorta sneaked in under the radar.
I got to dress up in funny clothes and run around New Zealand with a bow and arrow for 18 months, how bad could that be?
It's funny; recently I've started to notice people's impersonations of me, and it's basically like a hyperactive child.
I'm attracted to women who are smart and funny and ambitious and have lives of their own and great families. Isn't that what attracts anyone?
The funny thing about me that most people never really understand is that, at heart, I'm really a jock.
I find it so funny that people find me so interesting.
Ironing boards are a classic example of something I find horrible about modern society: the excitementation, for want of a better word, of mundane things. Funny ironing board covers - I hate them.
I think we're the only jokeless show on television. I mean really, we have no setups and no punch lines. It's not a joke show. There are funny lines and funny moments but again the comedy is born of the human experience and awkward pauses are a great part of what it is to be human.
I always enjoy conversation more if there is some substance to it - which is a just incredibly hilarious thing for me to say because for many, many years I was the guy whose only contribution to any conversation was, 'There was a funny 'Simpson's' joke about that.'
The funny thing is that when you have any form of presentation to your band, meaning you have the foresight to see outside of your creativity, you have a bigger vision.
If you're OK with being clumsy, it's funny. But if you are super embarrassed, people are going to laugh at you.
It's funny, in literature no one ever goes to the lavatory.
Most visions of extraterrestrial life are actually steeped in human hubris. The fictional extraterrestrials of 'Star Trek' or a hundred other space operas are less alien than many of my neighbors. And funny, the ones running the place are mostly WASPish men.
I think if everyone would write down the funny stories from their own childhoods, the world would be a better place.
Gotta stay in the gym, stay funny, stay sharp. I just love working.
Hurried and worried until we're buried, and there's no curtain call, Lifes a very funny proposition after all.
You just try to be true to your idea of what is funny and what is also interesting.
Japanese people have a funny habit of abbreviating names.
I was going through a little bit of turbulence in my career. And so, it's funny how turbulence itself will make you hold onto something for security. And so the only thing I knew is trust in the Lord and lean not unto your own heart, in all thy ways acknowledge him and he shall direct thy path.
Straight men just can't imagine the bliss of being in a relationship with someone who finds farting as funny as they do.
When I was doing ensemble theater and comedy work, I felt I had some talents. But when I started doing my shows in Berkeley and found that I could be funny on my own, I was shocked.
My kind of wanting to be funny didn't come from need, necessarily. The closest I can analyze it is that it was an easy way to make friends, I found out. It was just a great kind of social tool.
The funny thing about having all this so-called success is that behind it is a certain horrible emptiness.
It's funny that it all becomes about clothes. It's bizarre. You work your butt off and then you win an award and it's all about your dress. You can't get away from it.
I'm not a movie guy, I'm not a TV sitcom guy, but whatever seems to fit and is funny is good for me.
It's sad and upsetting when you see somebody crying hysterically, but at the same time it's real funny.
I tweet from bed. I love it because it's so quick. And it's funny. But it also leaves a lot of room for error because new people don't sense the sarcasm - there's no sarcasm font.
Live TV has an amazing pace to it. You've got to be able to think quick, make changes last minute, and be funny and fast.
It may sound funny, but I love the South. I don't choose to live anywhere else. There's land here, where a man can raise cattle, and I'm going to do it some day.
Europe is scooters. Europe is five young people on one bench sharing a chocolate bar. Their idea of entertainment and fun is so much different than ours, which is exactly why a movie about them would be funny.
It is funny because the guy who is my boss now, Howard Stern, has a similarity there. He got big being a regular guy. He wasn't the greatest looking guy in the world.
We didn't even think about it, you know? I used to collect laser discs, and you'd have some college professor analyzing It's a Wonderful Life or Citizen Kane, and now it is pretty funny - the idea of commentary for a silly kid's movie, you know?
I don't dismiss the music that I was involved with, I don't think it was a joke, I don't think it was funny or a phase, I don't think it was just something I was doing back then, to me it was who I am. It connects all the way through. I don't distance myself from any of it.
Some of my fans don't really like it when I respond to people who say things that are trying to be hurtful on social media. But I think it's kind of funny. There's a lot of things that make me laugh, that people would try and say those things. I mean, there's some that I can't even retweet or respond to just because of how bad it is.
People just don't laugh when their family is violated, and you don't shrug it off. You band together and you defend together. It's a funny, primitive instinct.
So, deadpan I think just means not acknowledging for one second that you think that this is funny and clever.
They're great girls. They're very funny, they're very smart, they're fun to be with. They're very lively, as I think people can tell. And you know, they're very confident girls.
I've worked a lot with Noah Baumbach, and he doesn't make it easy to like his characters, but the stories are funny and witty and there's an edge to that kind of humanity.
To me, wealth is the peace of mind you have, your family, your friends, your colleagues. Everything else is just money, and it really is funny how people pay so much attention to that.
I love writing both fiction and memoir. Both have unique challenges; bottom line, fiction is hard because you have to come up with the credible, twisty plot, and memoir is hard because you have to say something true and profound, albeit in a funny way.
You know, I said I have this problem that I need to more carefully read Akron's text because it's too much, too much fantasy, and so I am busy with other stuff - it's funny, it's nice to hear that someone is studying that carefully and now I know a little bit more about that.
It's really irritating. Even people who like my work sometimes come up to me and say, 'I usually don't like female comedians, but your material is great!' It makes the job prospect more daunting. Funny is funny, you know?
I don't really find things funny unless they're deeply tragic at the same time. I think if you're funny just for the sake of being funny, it's just frivolous nonsense. To me, all the best comic plays have been written about really serious and rather bleak things.
In terms of being vulgar, I don't think you need to be violent unless it's slapstick, violence to yourself. That can be funny - we've all tripped and fallen on our faces.
I remember people saying: 'You look funny, your hair is so black, you have a flat nose,' but I didn't think of it being racism, and I still don't. But there was a sense of difference, of being an outsider.
I specifically remember doing the musical 'Sweet Charity' at Stagedoor. I was playing Vittorio Vidal, which is a very funny part, and some other small roles. I couldn't really sing that well, but there were so many fun bits, and I just remember the tremendous adrenaline rush I felt from being onstage and hearing the audience enjoying it.
I like drama. I love being in a drama where I get to be the funny guy. That's what I really love the most.
I like seeing what the comedian thinks is funny, not just what they think I'll think is funny.
I like making fun of myself a lot. I like being made fun of, too. I've always enjoyed it. There's just something really, really funny about someone tearing into me.
I love improv so much. Listening. I think that's the key. When you improvise, you put a lot of pressure on yourself to create, and to be generating information, and trying to be funny, but if you just listen to what's being said to you, and then react honestly, you generally get better results.
A lot of comedies are based on the reaction shot. You have one person doing something stupid and one person is generally the straight man, and the laughs generally come on the reaction of the straight man to the funny thing the other person has done.
Kevin Hart. He's the man! I like his style. He's short, so I can relate. All the stories he tells are real. I respect that, and he's just a really funny dude - great comedy instincts. To do stand-up on a stage for an hour and tell stories and make people laugh is incredible.
In preschool, I would plan out my show-and-tell every week to be funny and exciting. Then in first grade I wrote a play, and my classmates and I performed it as a puppet show.
Funny is funny.
Comedy is probably a lot harder for me. Maybe it's because I've been doing drama for so long or maybe it's because... you don't want to search for a laugh; you can't try to be funny, you just have to naturally be funny or be in a situation that's funny.
Life is funny and it is interesting how we make it as serious as possible.
Le Corbusier is an outstanding writer. His ideas achieved their impact in large measure because he could write so convincingly. His style is utterly clear, brusque, funny and polemical in the best way.
This morning someone sent me a very funny photo of me holding their puppy. We have matching colour jackets.
I have a crush on Steve Tyler. He's funny, he rocks, and has a voice like a god. There is another one who I have discovered can sing. I should try and make an album with him... it's Barack Obama!
I made the choice long ago to write about real life. And life is both serious and funny.
I don't think just funny is enough on Broadway.
I wish I had a funny story.
The gummy bears tattoo was my idea. It's my son's favorite candy. The sketch was my other son's idea. It's a self-portrait of himself. I just showed the artist his sketch and had him tattoo it on my forearm. It looks like a stick person with big hair. It's pretty funny.
One of the funny things of being a producer, you have these fleeting, intense relationships with people, and they go off to global megastardom, and you don't see them.
Fame is a funny thing. I like doing normal things. I like going to fairs. I like going to ball games. I like going to Disney World or a big field on the Fourth of July and having picnics with friends. The problem is you're either worried you're going to be recognized, or you're thankful you're not. It's always there.
Follow your instincts. Do the kind of writing you love to do and do best. 'Stiff' was an oddball book - I mean, a funny book about cadavers? - and I worried that it would be too unconventional. In the end, that's what has made it a success, I think.
I think it's always funny when you see kids do Shakespeare.
In the happy scenes there were really fun times. Sean would say really funny stuff because he likes to improv. I would want to laugh, but you are not allowed to do that during the take.
Kids are funny.
I really love showing up at work at 10 A.M., trying to make it funny until 3 P.M., and then going home. It's like comedy bankers' hours.
I've been fascinated by the Internet from the very start. In 2001, I had made a funny black-and-white film called 'How to Dance Properly,' a short video of me dancing to a Madonna song. I sent it to 17 of my friends on a Thursday, and by Monday, one million people a day were logging on to view it.
I had a moment - and I don't know if it was funny, necessarily, but I realized the effect I could have on people - when I was doing a production of 'The Little Prince,' and I played the snake.
I found that I could write two kinds of short stories: I could write very absurd, kind of surrealistic, funny stories; or I could write very dark, realistic - hyper-realistic - stories. I was never happy with that, because I couldn't meld the two.
We love super-silly moments, funny moments, serious moments, weird moments.
It's funny when people ask an actor what they want to play next, because you don't get to decide what you play. I don't know. I can only say this: I don't want to and have no interest in playing a plastic surgeon. That's for sure. I'm open to anything else.
I'm coming out of the belly of Iran. It was the only place I was free. It's funny - when I say that, everyone is like, 'What? Freedom?' But the freedom I felt in Iran I've never felt anywhere else. Freedom of mind, freedom of time, of spirit. But after a while, you're so wounded that if you continue thinking about Iran, it will kill you.
With comedy, the jokes will come out, and people will see them coming. Changes in daily life or current events can change the consciousness of audiences and can make the show less funny or feel more stale.
It's funny what memory does, isn't it? My favorite holiday tradition might not have happened more than once or twice. But because it is such a good memory, so encapsulating of everything I love about the holidays, in my mind it happened every year. Without fail.
So to me, Texas Hold 'em puts me to sleep. At least when you play stud, you can be funny as you deal. Somebody some day is going to come up with a Stud show that's going to work.
The inventory process and stepping back in your life can sometimes be a very dark process. But it also can be extremely funny and surprising.
That is not all I need. I need dogs. A house filled with dogs and a smart, funny, kind, loving girlfriend or wife.
We adore babies because they're so cute. And, of course, we are amused by jokes because they are funny. This is all backwards. It is. And Darwin shows us why.
My mother was a terrific force in my life. Wartime-generation woman, hadn't gone to university but should have done. Was very funny, very verbal, very clever, very witty.
The funny thing is that I feel close to all my characters. Deep, deep inside them all.
I grew up playing hockey and some football, and I always think about the first time you walk into the locker room on a new team. The cliques are looking at you funny, and you make one friend, but then they're trying to stab you in the back.
I have to tell you I enjoy Jon Stewart. That's the truth. I actually think he's very funny. I've paid to see him do his stand-up routine.
I'm sure that my parents' behavior has entered my work, I'm sorry to say. I don't think you need to have a difficult childhood to be funny, but it helps.
Sometimes, you know - I think, with a lot of things, at the time, everything is extremely upsetting, and then you look back on it, and it actually can be sort of funny.
I have a funny relationship with religion. I'm a big believer in ritualistic behavior as long as it doesn't hurt anybody. But I'm not a big fan of rules. And yet, we cannot live in a world without order.
I write about wounds, the eternal treasons of life. It's not very funny, but it's sincere. My commitment is to sincerity.
I don't know. I think it's funny! I think it's funny! I go, what? It's so absurd. I'm alone.
A lot of my stories about the old days, they're delicious and funny. But every time I recall the early days, it's painful. With every anecdote, it's painful because you're summoning up the terribly, terribly difficult life of my parents. And it's painful because I didn't realize at the time how hard it was for them.
It's funny, because I sometimes feel that I'm most creative when I'm pregnant.
I would love to do a movie with Albert Brooks; we're so different, but I find him so funny, and I can be just as seemingly narcissistic as he comes off, the 'it's all about me' kind of thing.
I can't even look at daily comic strips. And I hate sitcoms because they don't seem like real people to me: they're props that often say horrible things to each other, which I don't find funny. I have to feel like they're real people.
I make funny videos of me playing video games, and I share those moments.
I'm very physical. I'm extremely active, and I would love to do something a little more sexy and dangerous, a la Sophia Loren, or funny and humorous, a la Woody Allen. Getting to do things along those lines would be extremely wicked and a dream come true.
'Red Band Society' is inspiring, funny, and an uplifting story that makes you want to make the most of your life, love and live to the fullest, and that's a great message.
I did a film called 'Black Dynamite' that was very, very funny. That seems to be a film that's kind of a cult classic.
I don't say things to be offensive; I say things because they're funny to me. It amuses me.
When I was in high school I used to sit by myself in the cafeteria - not necessarily by choice - but I thought it was funny to talk to people that weren't there.
To me, what separates a funny movie from a good movie is something personal.
I don't care how handsome or fabulous or funny the groom is, or how sweet and accommodating the bride, or vice versa. Marriage is hard.
I know my spirit is not mean, and I have a very good spirit and a funny spirit.
It's funny how we 'do' Christmas. Christmas is not something that we do, it is something that was done. It celebrates the long awaited arrival of the Messiah, Jesus Christ. We had nothing to do with it, but what we can do is praise God for the coming of the Lord, who washed away the sins of the world by dying on the cross.
'Crash' came from personal experience. I saw things inside me from living in L.A. that made me uncomfortable. I saw horrible things in people and saw terrible things in myself. I saw a black director completely humiliated, but the three people around me just thought it was funny. 'No,' I said, 'that is selling your soul.'
Tennis is a funny game, and it takes a life-time of keeping one's eyes open on the circuit to have any chance of understanding the strange phenomena that exist in our exciting sport!
I'd rather proliferate funny little rumors than not.
Experience is a funny thing. You don't always have it when you need it.
It's funny because I've resisted acting as a career for most of my life. But both my parents told me if I ever want to direct, I should act first because no director should direct until they know what it's like to be in the actor's shoes.
I never thought I was funny, but I enjoy being funny.
I'm surrounded by friends and family who are not that impressed by celebrity. They don't have any problem telling me I'm acting like an idiot or I'm not that funny.
It's funny how people who ain't never been down there can think that America is so fair and that we should be alright. It's funny that the people who have their foot on our neck are telling us, 'Get up. What's wrong with you?'
I mean, I - it's so funny, I am, you know, I am, you know, a working woman out in the world, but I still live with my parents half the time. I've been sort of taking this very long, stuttering period of moving out.
It's a funny thing - when I'm crazed with work, spending time with my children relaxes me. Yet, at the end of a long weekend with them, the very thing I need to relax is a little work and time away from them!
The American audience has really opened up to women being A.) funny and B.) kinda crude. 'Bridesmaids' is R-rated, and I think it was a major coup for women to have an R-rated comedy that did really well. Same as 'Bad Teacher.'
It's funny, as you live through something you're not aware of it.
We all know how funny Morrissey is. Actually, you know what? I say that sarcastically. His songs are some of the funniest songs I've ever heard in my life. I mean, really. I mean, not that the 'Girlfriend in a Coma' is, like, really funny.
I don't need to convince anybody that I know kung fu, but maybe somebody needs to know that I really can act, without doing a Chinese accent or a funny walk.
