Good, better, best. Never let it rest. 'Til your good is better and your better is best.
You can't cross the sea merely by standing and staring at the water.
In order to succeed, we must first believe that we can.
Life is 10% what happens to you and 90% how you react to it.
Failure will never overtake me if my determination to succeed is strong enough.
Accept the challenges so that you can feel the exhilaration of victory.
What you do today can improve all your tomorrows.
Believe in yourself! Have faith in your abilities! Without a humble but reasonable confidence in your own powers you cannot be successful or happy.
You are never too old to set another goal or to dream a new dream.
Either you run the day or the day runs you.
Keep your eyes on the stars, and your feet on the ground.
It does not matter how slowly you go as long as you do not stop.
The secret of getting ahead is getting started.
A creative man is motivated by the desire to achieve, not by the desire to beat others.
Always do your best. What you plant now, you will harvest later.
Infuse your life with action. Don't wait for it to happen. Make it happen. Make your own future. Make your own hope. Make your own love. And whatever your beliefs, honor your creator, not by passively waiting for grace to come down from upon high, but by doing what you can to make grace happen... yourself, right now, right down here on Earth.
Our greatest weakness lies in giving up. The most certain way to succeed is always to try just one more time.
Don't watch the clock; do what it does. Keep going.
If you can dream it, you can do it.
The will to win, the desire to succeed, the urge to reach your full potential... these are the keys that will unlock the door to personal excellence.
Problems are not stop signs, they are guidelines.
With the new day comes new strength and new thoughts.
Aim for the moon. If you miss, you may hit a star.
Start where you are. Use what you have. Do what you can.
When you reach the end of your rope, tie a knot in it and hang on.
A good plan violently executed now is better than a perfect plan executed next week.
Optimism is the faith that leads to achievement. Nothing can be done without hope and confidence.
We may encounter many defeats but we must not be defeated.
Things do not happen. Things are made to happen.
I'd rather attempt to do something great and fail than to attempt to do nothing and succeed.
There is only one corner of the universe you can be certain of improving, and that's your own self.
Knowing is not enough; we must apply. Willing is not enough; we must do.
A goal is a dream with a deadline.
Do you want to know who you are? Don't ask. Act! Action will delineate and define you.
Consult not your fears but your hopes and your dreams. Think not about your frustrations, but about your unfulfilled potential. Concern yourself not with what you tried and failed in, but with what it is still possible for you to do.
What you get by achieving your goals is not as important as what you become by achieving your goals.
By failing to prepare, you are preparing to fail.
Your talent is God's gift to you. What you do with it is your gift back to God.
Never give up, for that is just the place and time that the tide will turn.
Be kind whenever possible. It is always possible.
Go for it now. The future is promised to no one.
Expect problems and eat them for breakfast.
Ever tried. Ever failed. No matter. Try Again. Fail again. Fail better.
Do the difficult things while they are easy and do the great things while they are small. A journey of a thousand miles must begin with a single step.
Quality is not an act, it is a habit.
Without hard work, nothing grows but weeds.
There is no passion to be found playing small - in settling for a life that is less than the one you are capable of living.
Even if you fall on your face, you're still moving forward.
Setting goals is the first step in turning the invisible into the visible.
Change your life today. Don't gamble on the future, act now, without delay.
Beginning today, treat everyone you meet as if they were going to be dead by midnight. Extend to them all the care, kindness and understanding you can muster, and do it with no thought of any reward. Your life will never be the same again.
Never, never, never give up.
Poverty was the greatest motivating factor in my life.
I attribute my success to this - I never gave or took any excuse.
Never complain and never explain.
Arriving at one goal is the starting point to another.
Be miserable. Or motivate yourself. Whatever has to be done, it's always your choice.
If you're going through hell, keep going.
Set your goals high, and don't stop till you get there.
I don't believe you have to be better than everybody else. I believe you have to be better than you ever thought you could be.
Do the one thing you think you cannot do. Fail at it. Try again. Do better the second time. The only people who never tumble are those who never mount the high wire. This is your moment. Own it.
The key is to keep company only with people who uplift you, whose presence calls forth your best.
We are taught you must blame your father, your sisters, your brothers, the school, the teachers - but never blame yourself. It's never your fault. But it's always your fault, because if you wanted to change you're the one who has got to change.
The harder the conflict, the more glorious the triumph.
Pursue one great decisive aim with force and determination.
Do something wonderful, people may imitate it.
Determine never to be idle. No person will have occasion to complain of the want of time who never loses any. It is wonderful how much may be done if we are always doing.
Be gentle to all and stern with yourself.
I know where I'm going and I know the truth, and I don't have to be what you want me to be. I'm free to be what I want.
Perseverance is failing 19 times and succeeding the 20th.
You simply have to put one foot in front of the other and keep going. Put blinders on and plow right ahead.
There's a way to do it better - find it.
One way to keep momentum going is to have constantly greater goals.
I've found that luck is quite predictable. If you want more luck, take more chances. Be more active. Show up more often.
Do not wait; the time will never be 'just right.' Start where you stand, and work with whatever tools you may have at your command, and better tools will be found as you go along.
If you fell down yesterday, stand up today.
You are not here merely to make a living. You are here in order to enable the world to live more amply, with greater vision, with a finer spirit of hope and achievement. You are here to enrich the world, and you impoverish yourself if you forget the errand.
Well done is better than well said.
Motivation is the art of getting people to do what you want them to do because they want to do it.
The first step toward success is taken when you refuse to be a captive of the environment in which you first find yourself.
Be Impeccable With Your Word. Speak with integrity. Say only what you mean. Avoid using the word to speak against yourself or to gossip about others. Use the power of your word in the direction of truth and love.
If you don't design your own life plan, chances are you'll fall into someone else's plan. And guess what they have planned for you? Not much.
Where there is a will, there is a way. If there is a chance in a million that you can do something, anything, to keep what you want from ending, do it. Pry the door open or, if need be, wedge your foot in that door and keep it open.
The first question which the priest and the Levite asked was: 'If I stop to help this man, what will happen to me?' But... the good Samaritan reversed the question: 'If I do not stop to help this man, what will happen to him?'
You must take action now that will move you towards your goals. Develop a sense of urgency in your life.
True happiness involves the full use of one's power and talents.
The more we do, the more we can do.
Who seeks shall find.
Learning is the beginning of wealth. Learning is the beginning of health. Learning is the beginning of spirituality. Searching and learning is where the miracle process all begins.
The most effective way to do it, is to do it.
You just can't beat the person who never gives up.
Press forward. Do not stop, do not linger in your journey, but strive for the mark set before you.
One finds limits by pushing them.
Either I will find a way, or I will make one.
You can never quit. Winners never quit, and quitters never win.
Motivation will almost always beat mere talent.
Do not wait to strike till the iron is hot; but make it hot by striking.
The more man meditates upon good thoughts, the better will be his world and the world at large.
There is always room at the top.
The past cannot be changed. The future is yet in your power.
Opportunity does not knock, it presents itself when you beat down the door.
When something is important enough, you do it even if the odds are not in your favor.
I've worked too hard and too long to let anything stand in the way of my goals. I will not let my teammates down and I will not let myself down.
Follow your inner moonlight; don't hide the madness.
Perseverance is not a long race; it is many short races one after the other.
You create your opportunities by asking for them.
Set your sights high, the higher the better. Expect the most wonderful things to happen, not in the future but right now. Realize that nothing is too good. Allow absolutely nothing to hamper you or hold you up in any way.
Decide what you want, decide what you are willing to exchange for it. Establish your priorities and go to work.
Always continue the climb. It is possible for you to do whatever you choose, if you first get to know who you are and are willing to work with a power that is greater than ourselves to do it.
Small deeds done are better than great deeds planned.
I am not a has-been. I am a will be.
The weeds keep multiplying in our garden, which is our mind ruled by fear. Rip them out and call them by name.
To begin, begin.
How do you know you're going to do something, untill you do it?
If you don't like how things are, change it! You're not a tree.
You can't build a reputation on what you are going to do.
A somebody was once a nobody who wanted to and did.
Never retreat. Never explain. Get it done and let them howl.
It is very important to know who you are. To make decisions. To show who you are.
A will finds a way.
There is progress whether ye are going forward or backward! The thing is to move!
After a storm comes a calm.
Act as if what you do makes a difference. It does.
If you want to succeed you should strike out on new paths, rather than travel the worn paths of accepted success.
I learned that we can do anything, but we can't do everything... at least not at the same time. So think of your priorities not in terms of what activities you do, but when you do them. Timing is everything.
The hardships that I encountered in the past will help me succeed in the future.
Wherever you are - be all there.
The will to succeed is important, but what's more important is the will to prepare.
Whatever you want in life, other people are going to want it too. Believe in yourself enough to accept the idea that you have an equal right to it.
Big shots are only little shots who keep shooting.
Always desire to learn something useful.
I've always tried to go a step past wherever people expected me to end up.
I am not afraid... I was born to do this.
The dog that trots about finds a bone.
If you've got a talent, protect it.
If you ask me what I came into this life to do, I will tell you: I came to live out loud.
Leap, and the net will appear.
Go big or go home. Because it's true. What do you have to lose?
He conquers who endures.
If you want to conquer fear, don't sit home and think about it. Go out and get busy.
Follow your dreams, work hard, practice and persevere. Make sure you eat a variety of foods, get plenty of exercise and maintain a healthy lifestyle.
It's always too early to quit.
The people who influence you are the people who believe in you.
From my tribe I take nothing, I am the maker of my own fortune.
The ultimate aim of the ego is not to see something, but to be something.
In motivating people, you've got to engage their minds and their hearts. I motivate people, I hope, by example - and perhaps by excitement, by having productive ideas to make others feel involved.
Every exit is an entry somewhere else.
They can conquer who believe they can.
The turning point was when I hit my 30th birthday. I thought, if really want to write, it's time to start. I picked up the book How to Write a Novel in 90 Days. The author said to just write three pages a day, and I figured, I can do this. I never got past Page 3 of that book.
We aim above the mark to hit the mark.
Don't fight the problem, decide it.
I know not age, nor weariness nor defeat.
You have to make it happen.
Deserve your dream.
You never know what motivates you.
If you don't ask, you don't get.
Learn from the past, set vivid, detailed goals for the future, and live in the only moment of time over which you have any control: now.
March on. Do not tarry. To go forward is to move toward perfection. March on, and fear not the thorns, or the sharp stones on life's path.
Know or listen to those who know.
Don't give up. Don't lose hope. Don't sell out.
Hitch your wagon to a star.
No bird soars too high if he soars with his own wings.
You need to overcome the tug of people against you as you reach for high goals.
Step by step and the thing is done.
Only I can change my life. No one can do it for me.
Only the educated are free.
Never give in and never give up.
You can't wait for inspiration. You have to go after it with a club.
I really believe that everyone has a talent, ability, or skill that he can mine to support himself and to succeed in life.
The more things you do, the more you can do.
If you think you can do it, you can.
Do whatever you do intensely.
To be a good loser is to learn how to win.
No matter how many goals you have achieved, you must set your sights on a higher one.
I can, therefore I am.
God always strives together with those who strive.
Do your work with your whole heart, and you will succeed - there's so little competition.
Get action. Seize the moment. Man was never intended to become an oyster.
Begin to be now what you will be hereafter.
Crave for a thing, you will get it. Renounce the craving, the object will follow you by itself.
Your heaviest artillery will be your will to live. Keep that big gun going.
Either move or be moved.
There is nothing deep down inside us except what we have put there ourselves.
To be wholly devoted to some intellectual exercise is to have succeeded in life.
We make the world we live in and shape our own environment.
Set yourself earnestly to see what you are made to do, and then set yourself earnestly to do it.
Be thine own palace, or the world's thy jail.
When one must, one can.
What is called genius is the abundance of life and health.
One may miss the mark by aiming too high as too low.
Many are called but few get up.
You have to learn the rules of the game. And then you have to play better than anyone else.
You can't expect to hit the jackpot if you don't put a few nickels in the machine.
When you fail you learn from the mistakes you made and it motivates you to work even harder.
To know oneself, one should assert oneself.
I think people who are creative are the luckiest people on earth. I know that there are no shortcuts, but you must keep your faith in something Greater than You, and keep doing what you love. Do what you love, and you will find the way to get it out to the world.
I was motivated to be different in part because I was different.
The wise does at once what the fool does at last.
Do not weep; do not wax indignant. Understand.
I come to win.
You will never win if you never begin.
Earl Nightingale has inspired more people toward success and fortune than any other motivational speaker on the planet.
Giving back, doing motivational speeches and stuff like that, that's always made me feel good. If you repeatedly go out there, and you are the change that you want to see, then that's what you are.
I like to put on hardcore when I have to clean my apartment, which I hate to do, but it's motivational. I like old heavy metal when I'm outside working on my car. Music has definite functions for me.
Typically, if you reward something, you get more of it. You punish something, you get less of it. And our businesses have been built for the last 150 years very much on that kind of motivational scheme.
I've always thought of acting as more of an exercise in empathy, which is not to be confused with sympathy. You're trying to get inside a certain emotional reality or motivational reality and try to figure out what that's about so you can represent it.
My first book was called, 'Mountain, Get Out of My Way,' where I did an autobiographical sketch, if you will, looking back at myself and looking back at things in my life, and juxtaposing them against things that are happening in other people's lives and trying to be motivational.
Success is the only motivational factor that a boy with character needs.
I'm going to write a book, continue acting, continue motivational speaking and just share with people who I am and what I've learned in my second chance of life and pass it on to people in their first chance of life.
People always accuse me of being motivational in a way, like it was a bad thing, but that's just how I was raised. My mom raised me in a positive environment, with lots of love in my heart, and that reflects in my music.
Marvin's Motivational Moments actually started as something that was actually therapeutic for me. I would sit up late at night after my wife passed trying to adjust to being alone.
I started doing motivational tours. I've seen all kinds of people, from the CEOs to the lowest executive, opening up to their fears. We don't introspect as much as we should.
I'm thrilled to continue my partnership with U by Kotex for Generation Know while helping to empower girls. I've always been a motivational resource for my younger sisters and hope I can positively impact and inspire other young girls too.
Give Obama a script he has made his own, and he is the motivational speaker to end all speakers. Tony Robbins cloned with Honest Abe.
I went to a motivational training course once, a course of self-discovery, and I found out after a week that my fear - it was not a fear of not being accepted - was a very violent fear of failure.
I want to be motivational and inspirational for everybody: my big aim is more women on bicycles.
I realized I love motivating and I love empowering and I love inspiring people. I did that as an athlete for 18 years, and I am able to do that as a motivational speaker now as well as doing work on television.
One day, I got so disgusted that I sat down and wrote a list called 'Justin's list of things to do before he kicks the bucket.' I wrote it for myself and shortened it to 'Justin's Bucket List.' It was there on the wall, not as a story idea but as a motivational tool for myself, which actually ended up working pretty well.
We need to accept that the commandments of God aren't just a long list of good ideas. They aren't 'life hacks' from an Internet blog or motivational quotes from a Pinterest board.
I believe that any type of education can be great, but an education about ourselves can create something wonderful. I am a comedian, but people have called me a motivational speaker. I don't really consider myself that at all.
One of the things that I did before I ran for president is I was a professional speaker. Not a motivational speaker - an inspirational speaker. Motivation comes from within. You have to be inspired. That's what I do. I inspire people, I inspire the public, I inspire my staff. I inspired the organizations I took over to want to succeed.
Oh, I would love to be a motivational speaker. I have pulled myself out of a million potholes, and I can see the potholes ahead of me. That doesn't mean that I could always do that so perfectly for my own life. I totally fall in potholes.
Religious speech is extreme, emotional, and motivational. It is anti-literal, relying on metaphor, allusion, and other rhetorical devices, and it assumes knowledge within a community of believers.
Our subliminal mental processes operate outside awareness because they arise in these portions of our mind that are inaccessible to our conscious self; their inaccessibility is due to the architecture of the brain rather than because they have been subject to Freudian motivational forces like repression.
As long as I'm not selling out the people that ride or die with me, I'm glad I'm not an MC. I'm a motivational speaker. I'm not that rapper dude.
I like motivational books, because I like the go-getting American spirit - your destiny is in your own hands, life is what you make it, don't accept your limitations, jump before you're pushed, leap before you look.
I'm a motivational speaker.
