Coming together is a beginning; keeping together is progress; working together is success.
Success is not final, failure is not fatal: it is the courage to continue that counts.
The price of success is hard work, dedication to the job at hand, and the determination that whether we win or lose, we have applied the best of ourselves to the task at hand.
Success is simple. Do what's right, the right way, at the right time.
Always be yourself, express yourself, have faith in yourself, do not go out and look for a successful personality and duplicate it.
Don't aim for success if you want it; just do what you love and believe in, and it will come naturally.
Action is the foundational key to all success.
Success is nothing more than a few simple disciplines, practiced every day.
Success is not the key to happiness. Happiness is the key to success. If you love what you are doing, you will be successful.
Success consists of going from failure to failure without loss of enthusiasm.
The starting point of all achievement is desire.
Try not to become a man of success, but rather try to become a man of value.
A successful man is one who can lay a firm foundation with the bricks others have thrown at him.
It is no use saying, 'We are doing our best.' You have got to succeed in doing what is necessary.
Desire is the key to motivation, but it's determination and commitment to an unrelenting pursuit of your goal - a commitment to excellence - that will enable you to attain the success you seek.
Success is how high you bounce when you hit bottom.
If everyone is moving forward together, then success takes care of itself.
Success is a lousy teacher. It seduces smart people into thinking they can't lose.
Take up one idea. Make that one idea your life - think of it, dream of it, live on that idea. Let the brain, muscles, nerves, every part of your body, be full of that idea, and just leave every other idea alone. This is the way to success.
Happiness lies in the joy of achievement and the thrill of creative effort.
No man succeeds without a good woman behind him. Wife or mother, if it is both, he is twice blessed indeed.
The size of your success is measured by the strength of your desire; the size of your dream; and how you handle disappointment along the way.
Strive not to be a success, but rather to be of value.
All you need in this life is ignorance and confidence, and then success is sure.
I've failed over and over and over again in my life and that is why I succeed.
Success is to be measured not so much by the position that one has reached in life as by the obstacles which he has overcome.
When love and skill work together, expect a masterpiece.
We should measure welfare's success by how many people leave welfare, not by how many are added.
Think twice before you speak, because your words and influence will plant the seed of either success or failure in the mind of another.
It had long since come to my attention that people of accomplishment rarely sat back and let things happen to them. They went out and happened to things.
Success makes so many people hate you. I wish it wasn't that way. It would be wonderful to enjoy success without seeing envy in the eyes of those around you.
Success is not a good teacher, failure makes you humble.
What is success? I think it is a mixture of having a flair for the thing that you are doing; knowing that it is not enough, that you have got to have hard work and a certain sense of purpose.
If you wish to succeed in life, make perseverance your bosom friend, experience your wise counselor, caution your elder brother, and hope your guardian genius.
The foundation stones for a balanced success are honesty, character, integrity, faith, love and loyalty.
Success depends upon previous preparation, and without such preparation there is sure to be failure.
Winning isn't everything, it's the only thing.
To be successful, you have to have your heart in your business and your business in your heart.
If you find it in your heart to care for somebody else, you will have succeeded.
Success is a science; if you have the conditions, you get the result.
Success has a simple formula: do your best, and people may like it.
Success comes from knowing that you did your best to become the best that you are capable of becoming.
In order to attain the impossible, one must attempt the absurd.
Formal education will make you a living; self-education will make you a fortune.
The difference between a successful person and others is not a lack of strength, not a lack of knowledge, but rather a lack of will.
Success isn't measured by money or power or social rank. Success is measured by your discipline and inner peace.
A person with a new idea is a crank until the idea succeeds.
Flaming enthusiasm, backed up by horse sense and persistence, is the quality that most frequently makes for success.
Success is finding satisfaction in giving a little more than you take.
Success is peace of mind which is a direct result of self-satisfaction in knowing you did your best to become the best you are capable of becoming.
Always bear in mind that your own resolution to succeed is more important than any other.
The ladder of success is best climbed by stepping on the rungs of opportunity.
Success is sweet and sweeter if long delayed and gotten through many struggles and defeats.
Success is often the result of taking a misstep in the right direction.
What's money? A man is a success if he gets up in the morning and goes to bed at night and in between does what he wants to do.
Success is falling nine times and getting up ten.
Our worldly successes cannot be guaranteed, but our ability to achieve spiritual success is entirely up to us, thanks to the grace of God. The best advice I know is to give is to give those worldly things your best but never your all - reserve the ultimate hope for the only one who can grant it.
Whosoever desires constant success must change his conduct with the times.
The greatest sign of success for a teacher... is to be able to say, 'The children are now working as if I did not exist.'
Success is like reaching an important birthday and finding you're exactly the same.
One fails forward toward success.
Success in almost any field depends more on energy and drive than it does on intelligence. This explains why we have so many stupid leaders.
Frustration, although quite painful at times, is a very positive and essential part of success.
Defeat is not the worst of failures. Not to have tried is the true failure.
The most important single ingredient in the formula of success is knowing how to get along with people.
Winning isn't everything, but it beats anything in second place.
Success is a state of mind. If you want success, start thinking of yourself as a success.
There is only one success - to be able to spend your life in your own way.
If you want to be truly successful invest in yourself to get the knowledge you need to find your unique factor. When you find it and focus on it and persevere your success will blossom.
Failure is not an option. Everyone has to succeed.
To be prepared is half the victory.
Success is dependent on effort.
Success breeds success.
Success is getting what you want. Happiness is wanting what you get.
Definiteness of purpose is the starting point of all achievement.
Do something you really like, and hopefully it pays the rent. As far as I'm concerned, that's success.
To be successful you have to be lucky, or a little mad, or very talented, or find yourself in a rapid growth field.
Success is simply a matter of luck. Ask any failure.
The secret of success is to be in harmony with existence, to be always calm to let each wave of life wash us a little farther up the shore.
I have learned that success is to be measured not so much by the position that one has reached in life as by the obstacles which he has had to overcome while trying to succeed.
Belief in oneself is one of the most important bricks in building any successful venture.
I was obliged to be industrious. Whoever is equally industrious will succeed equally well.
Eighty percent of success is showing up.
It's the steady, quiet, plodding ones who win in the lifelong race.
The thermometer of success is merely the jealousy of the malcontents.
They succeed, because they think they can.
There is no success without hardship.
A champion is afraid of losing. Everyone else is afraid of winning.
Formula for success: rise early, work hard, strike oil.
If at first you don't succeed, try, try again. Then quit. There's no point in being a damn fool about it.
Victory has a thousand fathers, but defeat is an orphan.
Success is not forever and failure isn't fatal.
He has achieved success who has worked well, laughed often, and loved much.
The successful man will profit from his mistakes and try again in a different way.
You don't have to be a genius or a visionary or even a college graduate to be successful. You just need a framework and a dream.
People think that at the top there isn't much room. They tend to think of it as an Everest. My message is that there is tons of room at the top.
Most people give up just when they're about to achieve success. They quit on the one yard line. They give up at the last minute of the game one foot from a winning touchdown.
The common idea that success spoils people by making them vain, egotistic and self-complacent is erroneous; on the contrary it makes them, for the most part, humble, tolerant and kind.
Success is blocked by concentrating on it and planning for it... Success is shy - it won't come out while you're watching.
The secrets of success are a good wife and a steady job. My wife told me.
Success is counted sweetest by those who never succeed.
Let me tell you the secret that has led me to my goal. My strength lies solely in my tenacity.
The secret of success is sincerity.
Do you wish to rise? Begin by descending. You plan a tower that will pierce the clouds? Lay first the foundation of humility.
Success isn't a result of spontaneous combustion. You must set yourself on fire.
Success is achieved and maintained by those who try and keep trying.
Success is the child of drudgery and perseverance. It cannot be coaxed or bribed; pay the price and it is yours.
Success - keeping your mind awake and your desire asleep.
The man who has done his level best... is a success, even though the world may write him down a failure.
I honestly think it is better to be a failure at something you love than to be a success at something you hate.
The toughest thing about success is that you've got to keep on being a success.
If you want to achieve things in life, you've just got to do them, and if you're talented and smart, you'll succeed.
Once you agree upon the price you and your family must pay for success, it enables you to ignore the minor hurts, the opponent's pressure, and the temporary failures.
The measure of success is not whether you have a tough problem to deal with, but whether it is the same problem you had last year.
Whatever success I may have attained is due to the fact that since I was old enough to work at all, my ambition has never deserted me.
In this world it is not what we take up, but what we give up, that makes us rich.
Success is that old ABC - ability, breaks, and courage.
When you win, nothing hurts.
Success isn't everything but it makes a man stand straight.
Much effort, much prosperity.
Success or failure depends more upon attitude than upon capacity successful men act as though they have accomplished or are enjoying something. Soon it becomes a reality. Act, look, feel successful, conduct yourself accordingly, and you will be amazed at the positive results.
One secret of success in life is for a man to be ready for his opportunity when it comes.
If you have no critics you'll likely have no success.
The real secret of success is enthusiasm.
God lets you be successful because he trusts you that you will do the right thing with it. Now, does he get disappointed often? All the time, because people get there and they forget how they got it.
As kids we're not taught how to deal with success; we're taught how to deal with failure. If at first you don't succeed, try, try again. If at first you succeed, then what?
The five essential entrepreneurial skills for success: Concentration, Discrimination, Organization, Innovation and Communication.
Develop success from failures. Discouragement and failure are two of the surest stepping stones to success.
Success is not measured by what you accomplish, but by the opposition you have encountered, and the courage with which you have maintained the struggle against overwhelming odds.
Man needs his difficulties because they are necessary to enjoy success.
The secret of my success is a two word answer: Know people.
There is little success where there is little laughter.
In a balanced organization, working towards a common objective, there is success.
Failure is success if we learn from it.
It's our nature: Human beings like success but they hate successful people.
All men's gains are the fruit of venturing.
Sometimes I worry about being a success in a mediocre world.
The one phrase you can use is that success has a thousand fathers, and failure is an orphan.
Obedience is the mother of success and is wedded to safety.
To design the future effectively, you must first let go of your past.
The one thing that I know is that you win with good people.
The victor belongs to the spoils.
Success is the progressive realization of predetermined, worthwhile, personal goals.
In order to succeed you must fail, so that you know what not to do the next time.
Success seems to be largely a matter of hanging on after others have let go.
There is no substitute for victory.
Success is like death. The more successful you become, the higher the houses in the hills get and the higher the fences get.
How can they say my life is not a success? Have I not for more than sixty years got enough to eat and escaped being eaten?
Diligence is the mother of good fortune.
Success consists of getting up just one more time than you fall.
Don't confuse fame with success. Madonna is one; Helen Keller is the other.
Nothing succeeds like success.
Can you imagine what I would do if I could do all I can?
It's not enough that I should succeed - others should fail.
Success is the one unpardonable sin against our fellows.
Those who have succeeded at anything and don't mention luck are kidding themselves.
After I won the Oscar, my salary doubled, my friends tripled, my children became more popular at school, my butcher made a pass at me, and my maid hit me up for a raise.
I don't think about financial success as the measurement of my success.
To know even one life has breathed easier because you have lived. This is to have succeeded.
We fall forward to succeed.
The success and the failure are not my concern, but His.
Success is the space one occupies in the newspaper. Success is one day's insolence.
Pray that success will not come any faster than you are able to endure it.
Prospering just doesn't have to do with money.
Nothing recedes like success.
Success to me is having ten honeydew melons and eating only the top half of each slice.
Success doesn't mean that you are healthy, success doesn't mean that you're happy, success doesn't mean that you're rested. Success really doesn't mean that you look good, or feel good, or are good.
From success you get a lot of things, but not that great inside thing that love brings you.
Put your heart, mind, and soul into even your smallest acts. This is the secret of success.
Success is the result of perfection, hard work, learning from failure, loyalty, and persistence.
Success is no accident. It is hard work, perseverance, learning, studying, sacrifice and most of all, love of what you are doing or learning to do.
There are no secrets to success. It is the result of preparation, hard work, and learning from failure.
Every day is a new opportunity. You can build on yesterday's success or put its failures behind and start over again. That's the way life is, with a new game every day, and that's the way baseball is.
The way a team plays as a whole determines its success. You may have the greatest bunch of individual stars in the world, but if they don't play together, the club won't be worth a dime.
The road to success is not easy to navigate, but with hard work, drive and passion, it's possible to achieve the American dream.
The only place success comes before work is in the dictionary.
Success is not a destination, but the road that you're on. Being successful means that you're working hard and walking your walk every day. You can only live your dream by working hard towards it. That's living your dream.
Character cannot be developed in ease and quiet. Only through experience of trial and suffering can the soul be strengthened, ambition inspired, and success achieved.
Part of the secret of a success in life is to eat what you like and let the food fight it out inside.
Let us realize that: the privilege to work is a gift, the power to work is a blessing, the love of work is success!
Failure is the key to success; each mistake teaches us something.
Without continual growth and progress, such words as improvement, achievement, and success have no meaning.
Education is the key to success in life, and teachers make a lasting impact in the lives of their students.
Humility is the true key to success. Successful people lose their way at times. They often embrace and overindulge from the fruits of success. Humility halts this arrogance and self-indulging trap. Humble people share the credit and wealth, remaining focused and hungry to continue the journey of success.
Honesty and loyalty are key. If two people can be honest with each other about everything, that's probably the biggest key to success.
My mother was the most beautiful woman I ever saw. All I am I owe to my mother. I attribute all my success in life to the moral, intellectual and physical education I received from her.
Let every nation know, whether it wishes us well or ill, that we shall pay any price, bear any burden, meet any hardship, support any friend, oppose any foe to assure the survival and the success of liberty.
For success, attitude is equally as important as ability.
It's fine to celebrate success but it is more important to heed the lessons of failure.
We learned about honesty and integrity - that the truth matters... that you don't take shortcuts or play by your own set of rules... and success doesn't count unless you earn it fair and square.
A little more persistence, a little more effort, and what seemed hopeless failure may turn to glorious success.
At the end of the day, the most overwhelming key to a child's success is the positive involvement of parents.
The key to success is to keep growing in all areas of life - mental, emotional, spiritual, as well as physical.
Success is never final, failure is never fatal. It's courage that counts.
The supreme quality for leadership is unquestionably integrity. Without it, no real success is possible, no matter whether it is on a section gang, a football field, in an army, or in an office.
I attribute my success to this - I never gave or took any excuse.
I know of no single formula for success. But over the years I have observed that some attributes of leadership are universal and are often about finding ways of encouraging people to combine their efforts, their talents, their insights, their enthusiasm and their inspiration to work together.
A true friend is one who overlooks your failures and tolerates your success!
A key to achieving success is to assemble a strong and stable management team.
Success is where preparation and opportunity meet.
Success doesn't necessarily come from breakthrough innovation but from flawless execution. A great strategy alone won't win a game or a battle; the win comes from basic blocking and tackling.
We were all born with a certain degree of power. The key to success is discovering this innate power and using it daily to deal with whatever challenges come our way.
The greatest trap in our life is not success, popularity or power, but self-rejection.
God has already done everything He's going to do. The ball is now in your court. If you want success, if you want wisdom, if you want to be prosperous and healthy, you're going to have to do more than meditate and believe; you must boldly declare words of faith and victory over yourself and your family.
Communication - the human connection - is the key to personal and career success.
Patience, persistence and perspiration make an unbeatable combination for success.
Before anything else, preparation is the key to success.
A graduation ceremony is an event where the commencement speaker tells thousands of students dressed in identical caps and gowns that 'individuality' is the key to success.
The key to success is to focus our conscious mind on things we desire not things we fear.
Success is almost totally dependent upon drive and persistence. The extra energy required to make another effort or try another approach is the secret of winning.
Procrastination is one of the most common and deadliest of diseases and its toll on success and happiness is heavy.
The art of effective listening is essential to clear communication, and clear communication is necessary to management success.
Honesty and integrity are absolutely essential for success in life - all areas of life. The really good news is that anyone can develop both honesty and integrity.
There is never just one thing that leads to success for anyone. I feel it always a combination of passion, dedication, hard work, and being in the right place at the right time.
Focused, hard work is the real key to success. Keep your eyes on the goal, and just keep taking the next step towards completing it. If you aren't sure which way to do something, do it both ways and see which works better.
The path to success is to take massive, determined action.
The first step toward success is taken when you refuse to be a captive of the environment in which you first find yourself.
The battle of life is, in most cases, fought uphill; and to win it without a struggle were perhaps to win it without honor. If there were no difficulties there would be no success; if there were nothing to struggle for, there would be nothing to be achieved.
The level of our success is limited only by our imagination and no act of kindness, however small, is ever wasted.
Success does not consist in never making mistakes but in never making the same one a second time.
I'm happy to be on a winning team. My individual success, that lasts for a short period of time. The success of being a part of the South, of Atlanta, which is now the hot bed of music, that's what's gonna last the longest. The fact that I contributed to planting our flag and moving music to my city, that's what I'm most proud of.
Desire is the key to motivation, but it's the determination and commitment to unrelenting pursuit of your goal - a commitment to excellence - that will enable you to attain the success you seek.
You are loved just for being who you are, just for existing. You don't have to do anything to earn it. Your shortcomings, your lack of self-esteem, physical perfection, or social and economic success - none of that matters. No one can take this love away from you, and it will always be here.
Time is the most precious element of human existence. The successful person knows how to put energy into time and how to draw success from time.
I'm an addict, I'm addicted to success. Thankfully, there's no rehab for success.
I am fully aware that everybody has a right to succeed, and success should be with ethics.
For marriage to be a success, every woman and every man should have her and his own bathroom. The end.
Success in training the boy depends largely on the Scoutmaster's own personal example.
Money won't create success, the freedom to make it will.
Failures, repeated failures, are finger posts on the road to achievement. One fails forward toward success.
The keys to brand success are self-definition, transparency, authenticity and accountability.
You cannot climb the ladder of success dressed in the costume of failure.
The moment we believe that success is determined by an ingrained level of ability as opposed to resilience and hard work, we will be brittle in the face of adversity.
A strong, positive self-image is the best possible preparation for success.
Fear can be good when you're walking past an alley at night or when you need to check the locks on your doors before you go to bed, but it's not good when you have a goal and you're fearful of obstacles. We often get trapped by our fears, but anyone who has had success has failed before.
You stand with the least likely to succeed until success is succeeded by something more valuable: kinship. You stand with the belligerent, the surly and the badly behaved until bad behavior is recognized for the language it is: the vocabulary of the deeply wounded and of those whose burdens are more than they can bear.
I'm not going to get somewhere and say, 'OK, I'm done.' Success is never final; I'll just keep on going. The same way as failure never being fatal. Just keep going. I'm going to the stars and then past them.
You wanna know what scares people? Success. When you don't make moves and when you don't climb up the ladder, everybody loves you because you're not competition.
You are a product of your environment. So choose the environment that will best develop you toward your objective. Analyze your life in terms of its environment. Are the things around you helping you toward success - or are they holding you back?
Any fact facing us is not as important as our attitude toward it, for that determines our success or failure. The way you think about a fact may defeat you before you ever do anything about it. You are overcome by the fact because you think you are.
The envious man grows lean at the success of his neighbor.
I used to be really cute. I could send you earlier photos where I'm stunning. But I've gained about twenty pounds over the past two years, and the more weight I've put on, the more success I've had. If you drew a diagram of weight gain and me getting more work, a mathematician would draw some conclusions from that.
Success is nothing if you don't have the right people to share it with; you're just gonna end up lonely.
There is an immutable conflict at work in life and in business, a constant battle between peace and chaos. Neither can be mastered, but both can be influenced. How you go about that is the key to success.
I'd rather be a failure at something I love than a success at something I hate.
While formal schooling is an important advantage, it is not a guarantee of success nor is its absence a fatal handicap.
Earl Nightingale has inspired more people toward success and fortune than any other motivational speaker on the planet.
Our goals can only be reached through a vehicle of a plan, in which we must fervently believe, and upon which we must vigorously act. There is no other route to success.
If one advances confidently in the direction of his dreams, and endeavors to live the life which he has imagined, he will meet with a success unexpected in common hours.
One important key to success is self-confidence. An important key to self-confidence is preparation.
I don't know the key to success, but the key to failure is trying to please everybody.
The secret of success is learning how to use pain and pleasure instead of having pain and pleasure use you. If you do that, you're in control of your life. If you don't, life controls you.
Willpower is the key to success. Successful people strive no matter what they feel by applying their will to overcome apathy, doubt or fear.
To measure the success of our societies, we should examine how well those with different abilities, including persons with autism, are integrated as full and valued members.
Before success comes in any man's life, he's sure to meet with much temporary defeat and, perhaps some failures. When defeat overtakes a man, the easiest and the most logical thing to do is to quit. That's exactly what the majority of men do.
My store, Wine Library, outsells big national chains. How do you think we do it? It started with hustle. I always say that our success wasn't due to my hundreds of online videos about wine that went viral, but to the hours I spent talking to people online afterward, making connections and building relationships.
I used to think that you could get to a level of success where the laws of the universe didn't apply. But they do. It's still life on life's terms, not on movie-star terms. I still have to work at relationships. I still have to work on my weight and some of my other demons.
Enjoying success requires the ability to adapt. Only by being open to change will you have a true opportunity to get the most from your talent.
There is nothing more difficult to take in hand, more perilous to conduct, or more uncertain in its success, than to take the lead in the introduction of a new order of things.
If you want to increase your success rate, double your failure rate.
If we get our self-esteem from superficial places, from our popularity, appearance, business success, financial situation, health, any of these, we will be disappointed, because no one can guarantee that we'll have them tomorrow.
No student ever attains very eminent success by simply doing what is required of him: it is the amount and excellence of what is over and above the required, that determines the greatness of ultimate distinction.
Money and success don't change people; they merely amplify what is already there.
Indomitable perseverance in a business, properly understood, always ensures ultimate success.
In order to succeed, your desire for success should be greater than your fear of failure.
Like success, failure is many things to many people. With Positive Mental Attitude, failure is a learning experience, a rung on the ladder, a plateau at which to get your thoughts in order and prepare to try again.
Success is about dedication. You may not be where you want to be or do what you want to do when you're on the journey. But you've got to be willing to have vision and foresight that leads you to an incredible end.
The American Dream is one of success, home ownership, college education for one's children, and have a secure job to provide these and other goals.
My biggest success is getting over the things that have tried to destroy and take me out of this life. Those are my biggest successes. It has nothing to do with work.
Clearly the success of the Netflix model, releasing the entire season of 'House of Cards' at once, proved one thing: The audience wants the control. They want the freedom. If they want to binge as they've been doing on 'House of Cards' and lots of other shows, we should let them binge.
To do a common thing uncommonly well brings success.
I couldn't wait for success, so I went ahead without it.
Success is achieved by developing our strengths, not by eliminating our weaknesses.
Like the British Constitution, she owes her success in practice to her inconsistencies in principle.
A friend at school was always being laughed at because his father emptied dustbins for a living. But those who laughed worshipped famous footballers. This is an example of our topsy-turvy view of 'success.' Who would we miss most if they did not work for a month, the footballer or the garbage collector?
You have reached the pinnacle of success as soon as you become uninterested in money, compliments, or publicity.
I constantly think I'm a fraud - that this success is not warranted or justified.
A minute's success pays the failure of years.
My songs are the door to every dream I've ever had and every success I've ever achieved.
An entrepreneur assumes the risk and is dedicated and committed to the success of whatever he or she undertakes.
Without an open-minded mind, you can never be a great success.
When I started off in music, I started with a real innocence, a real love for the instrument, the writing the songs, the playing the songs and the sharing and the recording and experimenting. It was exciting. Then, this thing called success came, and something happened at some point where I became disenchanted, and I lost the innocence.
The superior man makes the difficulty to be overcome his first interest; success only comes later.
Talent alone won't make you a success. Neither will being in the right place at the right time, unless you are ready. The most important question is: 'Are your ready?'
There's nothing like success.
Urgent optimism is the desire to act immediately to tackle an obstacle, combined with the belief that we have a reasonable hope of success.
I believe there should be no arbitrary date set for withdrawal and yet no permanent, unending deployment. No cut and run, yet measured progress in helping a people who want to be free without an illusion of overnight success.
Four things for success: work and pray, think and believe.
Failure is not our only punishment for laziness; there is also the success of others.
Well, I believe that the depth of your struggle can determine the height of your success. I was inspired to come out of everything I've been through and end up in a place where I never thought that I would be.
King Louis Philippe once said to me that he attributed the great success of the British nation in political life to their talking politics after dinner.
To have long term success as a coach or in any position of leadership, you have to be obsessed in some way.
Success depends in a very large measure upon individual initiative and exertion, and cannot be achieved except by a dint of hard work.
Real success is not on the stage, but off the stage as a human being, and how you get along with your fellow man.
There is a deep sadness to American poverty, greater than the sadness of any other kind. It's because America has such an ideology of success.
Success does not mean happiness. Check out any celebrity magazine to look for examples to disabuse you of thinking that being beautiful, successful or rich will make you happy.
There is probably a perverse pride in my administration... that we were going to do the right thing, even if short-term it was unpopular. And I think anybody who's occupied this office has to remember that success is determined by an intersection in policy and politics and that you can't be neglecting of marketing and P.R. and public opinion.
Success has always been easy to measure. It is the distance between one's origins and one's final achievement.
My brother and I had a real love-hate relationship with my success. There was some bitterness there that I didn't understand until recently, but I told him that if I ever did a record I wanted him to play on it.
When it comes to success, there are no shortcuts.
I am highly offended by the total lack of acknowledgement of my contribution to Laker success.
In most things success depends on knowing how long it takes to succeed.
I raised five children. They all have different personalities. All of them have different issues, different levels of success. That was a learning experience for me.
Success is a public affair. Failure is a private funeral.
I'm not bothered about what people say behind my back. I don't need to know about it. I believe in living my life and doing my work. God will give you success. And even if He doesn't, there's a lesson to be learnt.
There's no one particular road that will lead you to success. I think everybody will find it differently.
With success came an ever-growing burden of responsibility. I lived with a near-constant low-level anxiety that I would make a mistake that would not only threaten my career, but also my brothers' - not to mention the livelihoods of many people who work with us or for us.
The most important thing for any athlete is to know his ability. If you know your ability and have even a little bit of a strong mindset, you can get success, because your ability takes you to success.
Success is the maximum utilization of the ability that you have.
An artist must never be a prisoner. Prisoner? An artist should never be a prisoner of himself, prisoner of style, prisoner of reputation, prisoner of success, etc.
Middle class families are struggling to send their sons and daughters to school. For many Americans, a college education is essential to future success.
Remember you will not always win. Some days, the most resourceful individual will taste defeat. But there is, in this case, always tomorrow - after you have done your best to achieve success today.
I never expected any sort of success with 'Mockingbird'... I sort of hoped someone would like it enough to give me encouragement.
Success depends almost entirely on how effectively you learn to manage the game's two ultimate adversaries: the course and yourself.
Once you can accept failure, you can have fun and success.
I think any artist that's going to become anything in this world faces humility: with great humility comes great success.
Start-up success is not a consequence of good genes or being in the right place at the right time. Success can be engineered by following the right process, which means it can be learned, which means it can be taught.
Success is not assured, but America is resolute: this is the best chance for peace we are likely to see for some years to come - and we are acting to help Israelis and Palestinians seize this chance.
I think the biggest challenge is to continue on the same path. I think it's easy to become complacent from the success you've had.
While I was doing stand-up, I thought I knew for sure that success meant getting everyone to like me. So I became whoever I thought people wanted me to be. I'd say yes when I wanted to say no, and I even wore a few dresses.
I'm either going to go completely mental, completely bankrupt, or have the best success of my life.
I had the good fortune of speaking with Orson Wells many decades ago and he said 'Success is primarily luck anyway.' And I have been very lucky. Of course, Orson Wells was enormously talented and brilliant - so who am I to argue with him!
Success has always been a great liar.
When one side benefits more than the other, that's a win-lose situation. To the winner it might look like success for a while, but in the long run, it breeds resentment and distrust.
An empowered organisation is one in which individuals have the knowledge, skill, desire, and opportunity to personally succeed in a way that leads to collective organisational success.
Education is a fundamental principle of what made America a success. We can't afford to throw any young people away.
Success unshared is failure.
All I can say is that I have arrived with the desire to be a success at Barca, that I am hungry to win titles.
Failure is a part of success.
You may lose your wife, you may lose your dog, your mother may hate you. None of those things matter. What matters is that you achieve success and become free. Then you can do whatever you like.
I just go where my heart tells me, where my gut tells me to go, where I'm enjoying my life the most, where I feel like I can have the most success. I've truly enjoyed my experience in NASCAR, to the point that I want to do it full time.
The system that enables the most people to earn the most success is free enterprise, by matching up people's skills, interests, and abilities. In contrast, redistribution simply spreads money around. Even worse, it attenuates the ability to earn success by perverting economic incentives.
Albert Camus, a great humanist and existentialist voice, pointed out that to commit to a just cause with no hope of success is absurd. But then, he also noted that not committing to a just cause is equally absurd. But only one choice offers the possibility for dignity. And dignity matters. Dignity matters.
I've had great success and I've had catastrophic failure. It's really how you handle the rough stuff that defines you, I think.
We live in a beauty-obsessed age and success sometimes appears to hinge solely on the presentation of an image that is acceptable to the press.
I have no time for specialized concerns, working themes or variations that lead to mastery... I like the indefinite, the boundless; I like continual uncertainty. Other qualities may be more conducive to achievement, publicity, success; but they are all outworn - as outworn as ideologies, opinions, concepts and names for things.
I live again the days and evenings of my long career. I dream at night of operas and concerts in which I have had my share of success. Now like the old Irish minstrel, I have hung up my harp because my songs are all sung.
In actuality, California could be a wonderful place to live. In fact, if you're highly educated and ambitious, you can do quite well here while enjoying the sun and the fun. The only problem: California will then blame you for your success and recommend that all your cash be removed from you.
Allowing a handful of broadband carriers to determine what people see and do online would fundamentally undermine the features that have made the Internet such a success, and could permanently compromise the Internet as a platform for the free exchange of information, commerce, and ideas.
Success is a great deodorant.
To have a childhood surrounded by people like Sir Laurence Olivier and Vivien Leigh sounds glitzy, but for years I wanted to repress it. I couldn't take that kind of power and success.
The road to success is always under construction.
Socialism has no moral justification whatsoever; poor people are not morally superior to rich people, nor are they owed anything by rich people simply because of their lack of success. Charity is not a socialist concept - it is a religious one, an acknowledgment of God's sovereignty over property, a sovereignty the Left utterly rejects.
A tragic irony of life is that we so often achieve success or financial independence after the chief reason for which we sought it has passed away.
Failure is the condiment that gives success its flavor.
The talent of success is nothing more than doing what you can do well, and doing well whatever you do without thought of fame. If it comes at all it will come because it is deserved, not because it is sought after.
In all our deeds, the proper value and respect for time determines success or failure.
The season of failure is the best time for sowing the seeds of success.
The very first step towards success in any occupation is to become interested in it.
Success is not only one thing. It's not only having a nice house in Beverly Hills and driving a nice Mercedes.
The success of the Rat Pack or the Clan was due to the camaraderie, the three guys who work together and kid each other and love each other.
To this day, just always treat people the way you want to be treated. Whether it's family or friends or co-workers, I think it's the most important thing. Whether you have success or don't have it, whether you're a good person is all that matters.
Success comes to those who dedicate everything to their passion in life. To be successful, it is also very important to be humble and never let fame or money travel to your head.
My success isn't a result of arrogance - it's a result of belief.
When you see something that is technically sweet, you go ahead and do it and you argue about what to do about it only after you have had your technical success. That is the way it was with the atomic bomb.
Every soldier must know, before he goes into battle, how the little battle he is to fight fits into the larger picture, and how the success of his fighting will influence the battle as a whole.
Success is neither magical nor mysterious. Success is the natural consequence of consistently applying the basic fundamentals.
Basically, when you get to my age, you'll really measure your success in life by how many of the people you want to have love you actually do love you.
Learning and innovation go hand in hand. The arrogance of success is to think that what you did yesterday will be sufficient for tomorrow.
A desire to be in charge of our own lives, a need for control, is born in each of us. It is essential to our mental health, and our success, that we take control.
You really have to work hard and apply yourself and by applying yourself and working hard and being diligent, you can achieve success.
Success is the sum of details.
Many of life's failures are people who did not realize how close they were to success when they gave up.
If you want to succeed you should strike out on new paths, rather than travel the worn paths of accepted success.
The most glorious moments in your life are not the so-called days of success, but rather those days when out of dejection and despair you feel rise in you a challenge to life, and the promise of future accomplishments.
We learned about gratitude and humility - that so many people had a hand in our success, from the teachers who inspired us to the janitors who kept our school clean... and we were taught to value everyone's contribution and treat everyone with respect.
You grow up a bit damaged or broken then you have some success but you don't know how to feel good about the work you're doing or the life you're leading.
No one succeeds without effort... Those who succeed owe their success to perseverance.
Have regular hours for work and play; make each day both useful and pleasant, and prove that you understand the worth of time by employing it well. Then youth will be delightful, old age will bring few regrets, and life will become a beautiful success.
Success breeds complacency. Complacency breeds failure. Only the paranoid survive.
Try to look at your weakness and convert it into your strength. That's success.
A friend of mine said something powerful at his grandfather's funeral. He said that the greatest lesson from his grandfather's life was that he died empty, because he accomplished everything he wanted, with no regrets. I think that, along with leaving a legacy, would be the greatest sign of success.
Make treating yourself a priority and always remember your life is happening now. Don't put off all your dreams and pleasures to another day. In any balanced personal definition of success there has to be a powerful element of living life in the present.
My success has been something I've worked a long time at and it's been a gradual process. I compare it to the idea of someone losing a lot of weight over a period of a few years. You don't really notice the weight loss overall but if you compare photos from then and now there's a big difference.
An excuse becomes an obstacle in your journey to success when it is made in place of your best effort or when it is used as the object of the blame.
I'm hopeful. I know there is a lot of ambition in Washington, obviously. But I hope the ambitious realize that they are more likely to succeed with success as opposed to failure.
I believe in luck: how else can you explain the success of those you dislike?
All of us are born for a reason, but all of us don't discover why. Success in life has nothing to do with what you gain in life or accomplish for yourself. It's what you do for others.
There's no success story. Everybody's got a ghetto story. You always want to make it bigger than what it is.
Our success educationally, industrially and politically is based upon the protection of a nation founded by ourselves. And the nation can be nowhere else but in Africa.
Nothing succeeds like the appearance of success.
The compensation of a very early success is a conviction that life is a romantic matter. In the best sense one stays young.
Almost no one is foolish enough to imagine that he automatically deserves great success in any field of activity; yet almost everyone believes that he automatically deserves success in marriage.
It is wise to keep in mind that neither success nor failure is ever final.
I've known entrepreneurs who were not great salespeople, or didn't know how to code, or were not particularly charismatic leaders. But I don't know of any entrepreneurs who have achieved any level of success without persistence and determination.
Divorce is never a pleasant experience. You look upon it as a failure. But I learned to be a different person once we broke up. Sometimes you learn more from failure than you do from success.
I can't imagine a person becoming a success who doesn't give this game of life everything he's got.
Fact: From quitting smoking to skiing, we succeed to the degree we try, fail, and learn. Studies show that people who worry about mistakes shut down, but those who are relaxed about doing badly soon learn to do well. Success is built on failure.
As I've progressed in my career, I've come to appreciate - and really value - the other attributes that define a company's success beyond the P&amp;L: great leadership, long-term financial strength, ethical business practices, evolving business strategies, sound governance, powerful brands, values-based decision-making.
To follow, without halt, one aim: that's the secret of success.
I may not have proved a great explorer, but we have done the greatest march ever made and come very near to great success.
My success set me up for life, and it meant that I could retire from the music industry at 27 to spend time with my newborn daughter and my wife. My time away from the spotlight allowed me to rediscover my love for music, and I'm doing it for me now and no one else.
That some achieve great success, is proof to all that others can achieve it as well.
I believe that being successful means having a balance of success stories across the many areas of your life. You can't truly be considered successful in your business life if your home life is in shambles.
Tell me, why is the media here so negative? Why are we in India so embarrassed to recognise our own strengths, our achievements? We are such a great nation. We have so many amazing success stories but we refuse to acknowledge them. Why?
My success was due to good luck, hard work, and support and advice from friends and mentors. But most importantly, it depended on me to keep trying after I had failed.
Achievement is not always success, while reputed failure often is. It is honest endeavor, persistent effort to do the best possible under any and all circumstances.
Adjusting to the passage of time, I think, is a key to success and to life: just being able to roll with the punches.
The most successful men in the end are those whose success is the result of steady accretion.
I've been so fortunate in my life that my family has never been jealous of my success. They have shown true love and commitment to me by being supportive. They shared in it.
I'm not really easy to live with! There needs to be unlimited patience and unconditional love. Men I've known before loved my independent spirit and were proud of my success, to the point that they'd become jealous of the time I devote to my career.
Never mind what others do; do better than yourself, beat your own record from day to day, and you are a success.
Success on any major scale requires you to accept responsibility... in the final analysis, the one quality that all successful people have... is the ability to take on responsibility.
Well, I think that there's a very thin dividing line between success and failure. And I think if you start a business without financial backing, you're likely to go the wrong side of that dividing line.
Being happy is of the utmost importance. Success in anything is through happiness.
The successful man doesn't use others, other people use the successful man, for above all the success is of service.
Written in 1895, Alfred Nobel's will endowed prizes for scientific research in chemistry, physics, and medicine. At that time, these fields were narrowly defined, and researchers were often classically trained in only one discipline. In the late 19th century, knowledge of science was not a requisite for success in other walks of life.
I have seven children by six different mothers. Maybe success was too good to me.
When I was 4 years old, my brother and sister died of hunger, so I achieved my success through confidence, self-motivation and my hard work.
My father left Nazi Germany a year after Dr. Kissinger, and so in my household he was very much an icon. He was a kind of immigrant success story, a refugee success story.
The Nationals tried hard to recover the lost ground. The final result, however, was the success of the Forest Citys by a score of 29 to 23 in a nine innings game, twice interrupted by rain.
Israel was not created in order to disappear - Israel will endure and flourish. It is the child of hope and the home of the brave. It can neither be broken by adversity nor demoralized by success. It carries the shield of democracy and it honors the sword of freedom.
Obstacles are necessary for success because in selling, as in all careers of importance, victory comes only after many struggles and countless defeats.
Sound character provides the power with which a person may ride the emergencies of life instead of being overwhelmed by them. Failure is... the highway to success.
Never continue in a job you don't enjoy. If you're happy in what you're doing, you'll like yourself, you'll have inner peace. And if you have that, along with physical health, you will have had more success than you could possibly have imagined.
Always remember that striving and struggle precede success, even in the dictionary.
The longer you hang in there, the greater the chance that something will happen in your favor. No matter how hard it seems, the longer you persist, the more likely your success.
As you walk in God's divine wisdom, you will surely begin to see a greater measure of victory and good success in your life.
Nobody travels on the road to success without a puncture or two.
I have a tendency to sabotage relationships; I have a tendency to sabotage everything. Fear of success, fear of failure, fear of being afraid. Useless, good-for-nothing thoughts.
That should be the measure of success for everyone. It's not money, it's not fame, it's not celebrity; my index of success is happiness.
I'd rather invest in an entrepreneur who has failed before than one who assumes success from day one.
You cannot allow your desire to be a winner to be diminished by achieving success before and I believe there is room for improvement in every sportsman.
Fathers and mothers have lost the idea that the highest aspiration they might have for their children is for them to be wise... specialized competence and success are all that they can imagine.
I always say that the real success of Wine Library wasn't due to the videos I posted, but to the hours I spent talking to people online afterward, making connections and building relationships.
The worst part of success is, to me, adapting to it. It's scary.
Some might complain that nuclear disarmament is little more than a dream. But that ignores the very tangible benefits disarmament would bring for all humankind. Its success would strengthen international peace and security. It would free up vast and much-needed resources for social and economic development. It would advance the rule of law.
The person who makes a success of living is the one who sees his goal steadily and aims for it unswervingly.
Good ideas are like Nike sports shoes. They may facilitate success for an athlete who possesses them, but on their own they are nothing but an overpriced pair of sneakers. Sports shoes don't win races. Athletes do.
To have success in your professional life is not so hard. To succeed as a man is more difficult.
There are people who can achieve huge success in life, while adding a bit of fun and a splash of colour to this increasingly grey world.
One press account said I was an overnight success. I thought that was the longest night I've ever spent.
It's a special person - and personality - who can lead a start-up to soaring success and sustain that success for the long term. Apple co-founder Steve Jobs and Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg are star examples.
I don't believe in the transformation myth, where if you have more success, life changes for you.
Success soon palls. The joyous time is when the breeze first strikes your sails, and the waters rustle under your bows.
At the end of the day, you are solely responsible for your success and your failure. And the sooner you realize that, you accept that, and integrate that into your work ethic, you will start being successful. As long as you blame others for the reason you aren't where you want to be, you will always be a failure.
Success usually comes to those who are too busy to be looking for it.
No one who achieves success does so without acknowledging the help of others. The wise and confident acknowledge this help with gratitude.
Those who cannot work with their hearts achieve but a hollow, half-hearted success that breeds bitterness all around.
Forward, as occasion offers. Never look round to see whether any shall note it... Be satisfied with success in even the smallest matter, and think that even such a result is no trifle.
I do not think that there is any other quality so essential to success of any kind as the quality of perseverance. It overcomes almost everything, even nature.
The only thing I'm addicted to is winning. This bootleg cult, arrogantly referred to as Alcoholics Anonymous, reports a 5 percent success rate. My success rate is 100 percent.
Success seems to be connected with action. Successful people keep moving. They make mistakes, but they don't quit.
Success in any endeavor depends on the degree to which it is an expression of your true self.
They talk about the failure of socialism but where is the success of capitalism in Africa, Asia and Latin America?
We need to accept that we won't always make the right decisions, that we'll screw up royally sometimes - understanding that failure is not the opposite of success, it's part of success.
Some of the best lessons we ever learn are learned from past mistakes. The error of the past is the wisdom and success of the future.
I believe that one key to success is to accept truth, no matter how it's spoken.
The secret of success is constancy to purpose.
Success is getting and achieving what you want. Happiness is wanting and being content with what you get.
Success means having the courage, the determination, and the will to become the person you believe you were meant to be.
Our daily decisions and habits have a huge impact upon both our levels of happiness and success.
I've learned that mistakes can often be as good a teacher as success.
I believe any success in life is made by going into an area with a blind, furious optimism.
Humor has bailed me out of more tight situations than I can think of. If you go with your instincts and keep your humor, creativity follows. With luck, success comes, too.
Anyone who wants to sell you overnight success or wealth is not interested in your success; they are interested in your money.
In the United States there's a Puritan ethic and a mythology of success. He who is successful is good. In Latin countries, in Catholic countries, a successful person is a sinner.
There's a misconception that survival of the fittest means survival of the most aggressive. The adjective 'Darwinian' used to refer to ruthless competition; you used to read that in business journals. But that's not what Darwinian means to a biologist; it's whatever leads to reproductive success.
Intuition is the wisdom formed by feeling and instinct - a gift of knowing without reasoning... Belief is ignited by hope and supported by facts and evidence - it builds alignment and creates confidence. Belief is what sets energy in motion and creates the success that breeds more success.
Whatever obstacle comes your way, you gotta be prepared to jump over it! And I think that's what separates the legends from the regular artists. It's all in how you manage that success, and how you deal with the controversy when it actually comes.
Success is just being happy. And I try so many different things. I do a lot of different things. Because I think God has helped me to love myself. I know who God is, and I love God.
When a small child, I thought that success spelled happiness. I was wrong, happiness is like a butterfly which appears and delights us for one brief moment, but soon flits away.
Over the years, I've become barraged by comments from people, such as, 'Beam me up, Scotty!' and I became defensive. I felt they were derisive and engendered an attitude. I am grateful for the success, but didn't want to be mocked.
The ever quickening advances of science made possible by the success of the Human Genome Project will also soon let us see the essences of mental disease. Only after we understand them at the genetic level can we rationally seek out appropriate therapies for such illnesses as schizophrenia and bipolar disease.
I think that success is having fun.
We can all agree that government can't solve the obesity crisis alone. It's an ongoing issue that will require a collaborative effort across private and public sectors if we want to see some long-term success.
Look, if you ask a child, 'Would you rather have a fulfilled mother or a stay-at-home Sylvia Plath,' they'll pick Sylvia Plath every time. But I think it's really important that children don't feel their parents' emotional lives depend on their success.
In the first six to twelve months of a war with the United States and Great Britain I will run wild and win victory upon victory. But then, if the war continues after that, I have no expectation of success.
The success of the suffrage movement would injure women spiritually and intellectually, for they would be assuming a burden though they knew themselves unable to bear it. It is the sediment, not the wave, of a sex. It is the antithesis of that highest and sweetest mystery - conviction by submission, and conquest by sacrifice.
My parents were very open about what kind of talent I had. They never pushed me to become an accountant because they knew that would be just absolutely ridiculous. So they were encouraging in what I am able to do with some success.
One of the key elements of human behavior is, humans have a greater fear of loss than enjoyment of success. All the academic studies will show you that the fear of loss of capital is far greater than the enjoyment of gains.
There are thousands of inspirational stories waiting to be told about young women who yearn for a great education. They are stories of struggle and stories of success, and they will inspire others to take action and work to change lives.
The measure of success is happiness and peace of mind.
Let every man feel that he is the architect and builder of his own life, and that he proposes to make a success of it by working.
Post-operatively the transplanted kidney functioned immediately with a dramatic improvement in the patient's renal and cardiopulmonary status. This spectacular success was a clear demonstration that organ transplantation could be life-saving.
My childhood, adolescence and high school days are unusually important. If there has ever been a time that I developed a uniqueness and sense of humor and the ability to organize, it was then. In those early days, I developed the skills that gave me a certain degree of success in American politics.
The reason we shot it was that the script was geared to Las Vegas and it was something commercial that we wanted to have in the can in case Butterfly was a success and we needed a follow-up.
When I was working in my first job engineering construction, what I liked the most was working with architects and making buildings that had this creative side coming from the architect and that were making them a big success.
If you wish to be a success in the world, promise everything, deliver nothing.
Earn your success based on service to others, not at the expense of others.
Discipline is the soul of an army. It makes small numbers formidable; procures success to the weak, and esteem to all.
Success is often achieved by those who don't know that failure is inevitable.
Management is efficiency in climbing the ladder of success; leadership determines whether the ladder is leaning against the right wall.
Success is due to our stretching to the challenges of life. Failure comes when we shrink from them.
Life is a series of punches. It presents a lot of challenges. It presents a lot of hardship, but the people that are able to take those punches and able to move forward are the ones that really do have a lot of success and have a lot of joy in their life and have a lot of stories to tell, too.
In a lot of ways, success is much harder than I thought it would be. I figured that you'd get here and then everything would be happily ever after. But, it's hard work, almost harder once you're successful because you've got to maintain it.
The more tranquil a man becomes, the greater is his success, his influence, his power for good. Calmness of mind is one of the beautiful jewels of wisdom.
Real success is not, like, materialistic. It's being where you want to be when you want to be; just living your life how you feel; having an ultimate goal and being able to accomplish it.
You've got to eat while you dream. You've got to deliver on short-range commitments, while you develop a long-range strategy and vision and implement it. The success of doing both. Walking and chewing gum if you will. Getting it done in the short-range, and delivering a long-range plan, and executing on that.
You can be discouraged by failure, or you can learn from it. So go ahead and make mistakes, make all you can. Because, remember that's where you'll find success - on the far side of failure.
Failure is only postponed success as long as courage 'coaches' ambition. The habit of persistence is the habit of victory.
No foreign policy - no matter how ingenious - has any chance of success if it is born in the minds of a few and carried in the hearts of none.
Just remember: to be grateful and thank the people who are there and support you along the way is a great start to success.
Being kind is the most important thing I've ever been taught. That's what my parents always told me - more important than ambition or success is being kind to people. The cornerstone of my life. What I aspire to is to be kind.
Growing up in a group home, and with an undiagnosed learning disability to boot, the odds of success were not on my side. But when I joined the high school football team, I learned the value of discipline, focus, persistence, and teamwork - all skills that have proven vital to my career as a C.E.O. and social entrepreneur.
The only way to permanently change the temperature in the room is to reset the thermostat. In the same way, the only way to change your level of financial success 'permanently' is to reset your financial thermostat. But it is your choice whether you choose to change.
Whenever an individual or a business decides that success has been attained, progress stops.
Success is the only motivational factor that a boy with character needs.
When I meet successful people I ask 100 questions as to what they attribute their success to. It is usually the same: persistence, hard work and hiring good people.
After a lifetime of working, raising families, and contributing to the success of this nation in countless other ways, senior citizens deserve to retire with dignity.
The optimist underestimates how difficult it is to achieve real change, believing that anything is possible and it's possible now. Only by confronting head-on the reality that all progress is going to be obstructed by vested interests and corrupted by human venality can we create realistic programmes that actually have a chance of success.
The most important thing is being passionate about what you're doing and always give it your all. That is the key to success.
Success isn't about the end result, it's about what you learn along the way.
I think there are those individuals who are intimidated by really smart, talented people. But for me, surrounding yourself with great talent is the key to success.
Just like gold, which has to weather very high temperatures to achieve the sheen and shine it finally gets, so also every person has to go through struggles in his life to achieve success.
As you become more successful, the gender barrier disappears. The credibility challenges you have during your growing up years starts disappearing when you start demonstrating success.
I am an enthusiast, but not a crank in the sense that I have some pet theories as to the proper construction of a flying machine. I wish to avail myself of all that is already known and then, if possible, add my mite to help on the future worker who will attain final success.
Never lose sight of the fact that the most important yardstick of your success will be how you treat other people - your family, friends, and coworkers, and even strangers you meet along the way.
The best revenge is massive success.
Success is the sum of small efforts - repeated day in and day out.
Success is peace of mind, which is a direct result of self-satisfaction in knowing you made the effort to become the best of which you are capable.
Success is not built on success. It's built on failure. It's built on frustration. Sometimes its built on catastrophe.
The making of friends who are real friends, is the best token we have of a man's success in life.
Perseverance is a great element of success. If you only knock long enough and loud enough at the gate, you are sure to wake up somebody.
The secret of your success is determined by your daily agenda.
Successful people make money. It's not that people who make money become successful, but that successful people attract money. They bring success to what they do.
If you work just for money, you'll never make it, but if you love what you're doing and you always put the customer first, success will be yours.
The ladder of success is never crowded at the top.
Success in its highest and noblest form calls for peace of mind and enjoyment and happiness which come only to the man who has found the work that he likes best.
A rejection is nothing more than a necessary step in the pursuit of success.
Part of being a man is learning to take responsibility for your successes and for your failures. You can't go blaming others or being jealous. Seeing somebody else's success as your failure is a cancerous way to live.
Sometimes we may ask God for success, and He gives us physical and mental stamina. We might plead for prosperity, and we receive enlarged perspective and increased patience, or we petition for growth and are blessed with the gift of grace. He may bestow upon us conviction and confidence as we strive to achieve worthy goals.
Challenge is the pathway to engagement and progress in our lives. But not all challenges are created equal. Some challenges make us feel alive, engaged, connected, and fulfilled. Others simply overwhelm us. Knowing the difference as you set bigger and bolder challenges for yourself is critical to your sanity, success, and satisfaction.
A great social success is a pretty girl who plays her cards as carefully as if she were plain.
Ambition is the path to success. Persistence is the vehicle you arrive in.
The winner's edge is not in a gifted birth, a high IQ, or in talent. The winner's edge is all in the attitude, not aptitude. Attitude is the criterion for success.
Men of age object too much, consult too long, adventure too little, repent too soon, and seldom drive business home to the full period, but content themselves with a mediocrity of success.
The new midlife is where you realize that even your failures make you more beautiful and are turned spiritually into success if you became a better person because of them. You became a more humble person. You became a more merciful and compassionate person.
The road to success is always under construction.
Ultimately, leadership is not about glorious crowning acts. It's about keeping your team focused on a goal and motivated to do their best to achieve it, especially when the stakes are high and the consequences really matter. It is about laying the groundwork for others' success, and then standing back and letting them shine.
I have an idea of who I want to be, I have a vision of my own success.
Everything you need for better future and success has already been written. And guess what? All you have to do is go to the library.
Success is only meaningful and enjoyable if it feels like your own.
The distance between insanity and genius is measured only by success.
My powers are ordinary. Only my application brings me success.
You will be a failure, until you impress the subconscious with the conviction you are a success. This is done by making an affirmation which 'clicks.'
True leaders don't invest in buildings. Jesus never built a building. They invest in people. Why? Because success without a successor is failure. So your legacy should not be in buildings, programs, or projects; your legacy must be in people.
Think little goals and expect little achievements. Think big goals and win big success.
Success represents the 1% of your work which results from the 99% that is called failure.
I did stand-up comedy for 18 years. Ten of those years were spent learning, four years were spent refining, and four years were spent in wild success. I was seeking comic originality, and fame fell on me as a byproduct. The course was more plodding than heroic.
Think of success as a game of chance in which you have control over the odds. As you begin to master concepts in personal achievement, you are increasing your odds of achieving success.
Success and failure are both part of life. Both are not permanent.
No matter how much success you're having, you can't continue working together if you can't communicate.
Success to me is being a good person, treating people well.
Enjoy your sweat because hard work doesn't guarantee success, but without it you don't have a chance.
I'm different, and I have to be a warrior to be that way. But I have had some success; I hope I have touched the lives of some wonderful people, all by being what I see as myself but some others people see as different.
The hardest thing to find in life is balance - especially the more success you have, the more you look to the other side of the gate. What do I need to stay grounded, in touch, in love, connected, emotionally balanced? Look within yourself.
If you create incredible value and information for others that can change their lives - and you always stay focused on that service - the financial success will follow.
We are taught to consume. And that's what we do. But if we realized that there really is no reason to consume, that it's just a mind set, that it's just an addiction, then we wouldn't be out there stepping on people's hands climbing the corporate ladder of success.
True success, true happiness lies in freedom and fulfillment.
Everybody loves success, but they hate successful people.
People of mediocre ability sometimes achieve outstanding success because they don't know when to quit. Most men succeed because they are determined to.
Taxation is the price we pay for failing to build a civilized society. The higher the tax level, the greater the failure. A centrally planned totalitarian state represents a complete defeat for the civilized world, while a totally voluntary society represents its ultimate success.
You weren't born just to live a life and to die; you were born to accomplish something specifically. Matter of fact, success is making it to the end of your purpose; that is success... Success is not just existing. Success is making it to the end of why you were born.
By seizing the opportunities that disruption presents and leveraging hard times into greater success through outworking/outinnovating/outthinking and outworking everyone around you, this just might be the richest time of your life so far.
You've got to ask! Asking is, in my opinion, the world's most powerful - and neglected - secret to success and happiness.
Survival was my only hope, success my only revenge.
The single most important key to success is to be a good listener.
Success is not in never failing, but rising everytime you fall!
We do not know, in most cases, how far social failure and success are due to heredity, and how far to environment. But environment is the easier of the two to improve.
God gave me a second chance. I am so very glad with what is going on with my career, but I want to be a success in my relationship with my children.
If we study learning as a data science, we can reverse engineer the human brain and tailor learning techniques to maximize the chances of student success. This is the biggest revolution that could happen in education, turning it into a data-driven science, and not such a medieval set of rumors professors tend to carry on.
Some people dream of success, while other people get up every morning and make it happen.
The secret to success is to offend the greatest number of people.
Success is steady progress toward one's personal goals.
Success is getting what you want. Happiness is liking what you get.
That man is a success who has lived well, laughed often and loved much.
Creativity is the key to success in the future, and primary education is where teachers can bring creativity in children at that level.
America is the most grandiose experiment the world has seen, but, I am afraid, it is not going to be a success.
I think you can have 10,000 explanations for failure, but no good explanation for success.
The two most important requirements for major success are: first, being in the right place at the right time, and second, doing something about it.
Success is the progressive realization of a worthy goal or ideal.
Success in life is founded upon attention to the small things rather than to the large things; to the every day things nearest to us rather than to the things that are remote and uncommon.
I always say be humble but be firm. Humility and openness are the key to success without compromising your beliefs.
The secret of our success is that we never, never give up.
Our purpose in Vietnam is to prevent the success of aggression. It is not conquest, it is not empire, it is not foreign bases, it is not domination. It is, simply put, just to prevent the forceful conquest of South Vietnam by North Vietnam.
Success and failure are equally disastrous.
When everything happens to you when you're so young, you're very lucky, but by the same token, you're never going to have that same feeling again. The first time anything happens to you - your first love, your first success - the second one is never the same.
Good planning is important. I've also regarded a sense of humor as one of the most important things on a big expedition. When you're in a difficult or dangerous situation, or when you're depressed about the chances of success, someone who can make you laugh eases the tension.
Success is a sort of metaphysical experience. I live exactly as I did before - only on a slightly bigger scale. Naturally, I won't be corrupted. I'll sit there in my Rolls, uncorrupted, and tell my chauffeur, uncorruptedly, where to go.
I've had great success being a total idiot.
The secret of my success is that I make other people money. And, never ever, ever, ever be ashamed about trying to earn as much as possible for yourself, if the person you're working with is also making money. That's life!
People talk about bullying, but you can be your own bully in some ways. You can be the person who is standing in the way of your success, and that was the case for me.
Every human being is searching for a deep sense of meaning, and yet we're all chasing success. We've confused one for the other.
Success is attaining your dream while helping others to benefit from that dream materializing.
What is success? It is a toy balloon among children armed with pins.
My father was overbearing. Very controlling. He was always the way he is, even before my success. He was not always a good person. He'd play mind games to make sure I knew my place. I don't see him, which is unfortunate. But I don't have any desire to see him. I vaguely know where he is, and I don't want to know.
A woman who is loved always has success.
I love kite surfing and mountain bike riding. It's kind of interesting; my kite surfing ability has probably deteriorated with the rate of Kaggle's success.
Within the hearts men, loyalty and consideration are esteemed greater than success.
Success or failure in business is caused more by the mental attitude even than by mental capacities.
One measure of your success will be the degree to which you build up others who work with you. While building up others, you will build up yourself.
Hip-hop is more about attaining wealth. People respect success. They respect big. They don't even have to like your music. If you're big enough, people are drawn to you.
I'm not after fame and success and fortune and power. It's mostly that I want to have a good job and have good friends; that's the good stuff in life.
Well, I do feel that I carry the responsibility of representing my country wherever I am, and this responsibility came with the success that I had in last couple of years, not just myself but the whole group of tennis players that comes from Serbia. And athletes in general are, in this moment, the biggest ambassadors that our country has.
Forget about the consequences of failure. Failure is only a temporary change in direction to set you straight for your next success.
I owe my success to having listened respectfully to the very best advice, and then going away and doing the exact opposite.
Not every difficult and dangerous thing is suitable for training, but only that which is conducive to success in achieving the object of our effort.
There is no force like success, and that is why the individual makes all effort to surround himself throughout life with the evidence of it; as of the individual, so should it be of the nation.
Success can make you go one of two ways. It can make you a prima donna - or it can smooth the edges, take away the insecurities, let the nice things come out.
Mistakes are the best teachers. One does not learn from success. It is desirable to learn vicariously from other people's failures, but it gets much more firmly seared in when they are your own.
To burn always with this hard, gem-like flame, to maintain this ecstasy, is success in life.
Because after my first year I had a lot of success, took everybody by storm, came back the next year thought it was easy and didn't have near the season I had the previous year. It was kind of a wake-up call. And so, life goes on.
It's how you deal with failure that determines how you achieve success.
I used to define success as being able to produce any result you wanted, whether it was a relationship, weight-loss, being a millionaire, impacting the culture, changing society, whatever it might be - it might be homelessness, whatever - and lately, I've redefined success as 'fulfilling your soul's purpose.'
I planned my success. I knew it was going to happen.
Success is what you do with your ability. It's how you use your talent.
PETA has a proven track record of success. Each victory PETA wins for the animals is a stepping stone upon which we build a more compassionate world for all beings - and we will never give up our fight until all animals are treated with respect and kindness.
My biggest failure is 'Metal Gear.' It's my biggest failure and my biggest success.
Also, it's risky to try to duplicate earlier success. Magician had a certain charm to it, mostly due to my choice of lead characters, that I would be hard put to duplicate.
My definition of success is to live your life in a way that causes you to feel a ton of pleasure and very little pain - and because of your lifestyle, have the people around you feel a lot more pleasure than they do pain.
I didn't know how to deal with success. If there was a Rock Star 101, I would have liked to take it. It might have helped me.
Life affords no higher pleasure than that of surmounting difficulties, passing from one step of success to another, forming new wishes and seeing them gratified.
I want anyone who believes in life, liberty, pursuit of happiness to succeed. And I want any force, any person, any element of an overarching Big Government that would stop your success, I want that organization, that element or that person to fail. I want you to succeed.
American inventiveness and the desire to build developed because we were guaranteed the right to own our success.
I'm an eternal realist and the success rate for being an actor is pretty low.
I'm a forgiver. I might not forget, but I forgive. My mother, father and older brother always told me: 'Don't hold grudges. If you do that, you don't lower yourself down to your adversary. Just treat people the way you want to be treated.' I honestly think that's why I was able to survive and have some success.
What's really cool about our family is that we don't hold grudges, and I think that is what's been the key to the success. We get into our little disagreements, and whether we're right or wrong, we'll go and apologize. That's just the way we are.
Success consists in being successful, not in having potential for success. Any wide piece of ground is the potential site of a palace, but there's no palace till it's built.
Great leaders understand that historical success tends to produce stable and inwardly focused organizations, and these outfits, in turn, reinforce a feeling of contentment with the status quo.
I always think part of success is being able to replicate results, taking what is interesting or viable about yourself as a professional person and seeing if you bring it into different situations with similar results.
Success is fickle, but creativity is a gift.
I thought doing reality TV would be the greatest success of my life or the biggest mistake.
I don't want to be married to someone who feels inferior to my success or because I make more money than he does.
What drew me towards team sport were the camaraderie and friendship. The chance to celebrate victory and success with a group of other people is something I have enjoyed doing.
We're constantly striving for success, fame and comfort when all we really need to be happy is someone or some thing to be enthusiastic about.
Success is doing ordinary things extraordinarily well.
It is not the going out of port, but the coming in, that determines the success of a voyage.
Success is full of promise till one gets it, and then it seems like a nest from which the bird has flown.
Think of yourself as on the threshold of unparalleled success. A whole, clear, glorious life lies before you. Achieve! Achieve!
We learn wisdom from failure much more than from success. We often discover what will do, by finding out what will not do; and probably he who never made a mistake never made a discovery.
You've got to work hard for your success and you've got to have a steady presence. That's the secret.
The most absurd and reckless aspirations have sometimes led to extraordinary success.
Your chances of success in any undertaking can always be measured by your belief in yourself.
I don't want to wake up and be bored. That's probably my greatest fear is to have nothing to do. What better job is there than to play quarterback for an NFL team, and certainly one that I've been on for a long time and had success with? I don't plan on giving it up any time soon.
Super-ambitious goals tend to be unifying and energizing to people; but only if they believe there's a chance of success.
I'm a very competitive person, but competitive with myself. I want to be the best that I can be, and if that means that I'm eventually better than everyone else, then so be it. But I don't go around comparing and contrasting myself with other actors if I can help it. It's also, I think, the key to my success.
How easy to be amiable in the midst of happiness and success.
I wish the Peace Corps and its volunteers continued success and perseverance. We are grateful for their contributions to society and dedication to providing assistance where it is needed. May the Peace Corps continue its legacy of service, both at home and abroad.
The flaw in, say, austerity, is that its success is predicated on the relative exactitude of math rather than the shifting, liquid imperfection of people's lives.
What strikes me is that there's a very fine line between success and failure. Just one ingredient can make the difference.
Fame always brings loneliness. Success is as ice cold and lonely as the North Pole.
Success comes from taking the initiative and following up... persisting... eloquently expressing the depth of your love. What simple action could you take today to produce a new momentum toward success in your life?
Find a good teacher that will keep the game fun. Work hard and don't be afraid to have success or disappointment. That is what golf is all about.
I don't think ethical people deal with intimidation as a method to achieve success. Undermining someone's self-esteem isn't a method to achieve success.
If I wasn't even famous or had any success, I would still wake up and put tons of make-up on, and put on a cool outfit. That's always been who I've been my whole life, so that's never gonna change. I love fashion. I love getting dressed up. I love Halloween, too.
I am decidedly of the opinion that in very many instances we can trace such a necessary connexion, especially among birds, and often with more complete success than in the case which I have here attempted to explain.
Through perseverance many people win success out of what seemed destined to be certain failure.
Personality is the most important thing to an actress's success.
The secret to success is good leadership, and good leadership is all about making the lives of your team members or workers better.
The success I have achieved in bodybuilding, motion pictures, and business would not have been possible without the generosity of the American people and the freedom here to pursue your dreams.
When I finish a picture I don't show it to anyone if I feel it's not good enough yet. I've learnt to listen to my partners and my friends. For me it's the biggest success if they like it.
The more defects a man may have, the older he is, the less lovable, the more resounding his success.
Honesty is the most single most important factor having a direct bearing on the final success of an individual, corporation, or product.
People seldom see the halting and painful steps by which the most insignificant success is achieved.
Women attribute their success to working hard, luck, and help from other people. Men will attribute that - whatever success they have, that same success - to their own core skills.
People think your success is just a matter of having a pretty face. But it's easy to be chewed up and spat out. You've got to stay ahead of the game to be able to stay in it.
Believe it or not, I have about the same success rate as anyone else. Sometimes you hit, sometimes you miss.
Seventy percent of success in life is showing up.
Ego stops you from getting things done and getting people to work with you. That's why I firmly believe that ego and success are not compatible.
The man who has really won the love of one good woman in this world, I do not care if he dies in the ditch a beggar - his life has been a success.
Success is more difficult to handle than failure.
The foundation of success in life is good health: that is the substratum fortune; it is also the basis of happiness. A person cannot accumulate a fortune very well when he is sick.
Entrepreneurship is like a computer game in which you have to master every level before achieving success. Startups repeatedly stumble and have to go back to the drawing board. The best way to skip some levels and to increase the odds of survival is to learn from others who have already played the game.
I can give you a six-word formula for success: Think things through - then follow through.
Success leaves clues, and if you sow the same seeds, you'll reap the same rewards.
One needs more than ambition and talent to make a success of anything, really. There must be love and a vocation.
Some say I'm an overnight success. Well, that was a very long night that lasted about 10 years. But while I do, of course, now feel the pressure having had books that have been very successful, I just know I have to concentrate on writing for myself. I can't worry about genres or markets or what might be commercial or not. That never works.
Before everything else, getting ready is the secret of success.
You know you are on the road to success if you would do your job, and not be paid for it.
Success in life comes not from holding a good hand, but in playing a poor hand well.
Success - it's what you do with what you've got.
How one handles success or failure is determined by their early childhood.
The will to persevere is often the difference between failure and success.
The only yardstick for success our society has is being a champion. No one remembers anything else.
The whole secret to our success is being able to con ourselves into believing that we're going to change the world because statistically we are unlikely to do it.
We create success or failure on the course primarily by our thoughts.
You can do anything if you set your mind to it. Look out for kids, help them dream and be inspired. We teach calculus in schools, but I believe the most important formula is courage plus dreams equals success.
My story of success and failure is not just about music and being famous. It's about living and loving and trying to find purpose in this crazy world.
Commitment, belief and positive attitude are all important if you're going to be a success, whether you're in sports, in business or, as in my case, anthropology.
'Perfect' is about a set-up that looks perfect from the outside - beautiful country house, beautiful wife and mother, everything where it should be - and the deep fissures that, in fact, lie beneath that. 'Perfect' was partly a response to the shock of my first book, 'The Unlikely Pilgrimage Of Harold Fry,' being a success.
An artist cannot fail; it is a success to be one.
No man is a success in business unless he loves his work.
Success is not a function of the size of your title but the richness of your contribution.
There's more to life than success, and if you can try to be more well-rounded, you'll be able to enjoy your success more. It won't own you or control you.
I do think a key to success in any walk of life is having a short memory and a thick skin - I know it has served me well over the years.
About the only problem with success is that it does not teach you how to deal with failure.
Don't be afraid of failure; be afraid of petty success.
Success cannot come from standstill men. Methods change and men must change with them.
Apple Computer would not have reached its current peak of success if it had feared to roll the dice and launch products that didn't always hit the mark. In the mid-1990s, the company was considered washed up, Steve Jobs had departed, and a string of lackluster product launches unrelated to the company's core business.
The negative side of the American Dream comes when people pursue success at any cost, which in turn destroys the vision and the dream.
Real success is being totally indulgent about your own trip. You put your blinders on about the garbage and go full speed ahead.
A manager is a guide. He takes a group of people and says, 'With you I can make us a success; I can show you the way.'
Nothing good comes in life or athletics unless a lot of hard work has preceded the effort. Only temporary success is achieved by taking short cuts.
On receiving from the people the sacred trust twice confided on my illustrious predecessor, and which he has discharged so faithfully and so well, I know that I can not expect to perform the arduous task with equal ability and success.
Success for an athlete follows many years of hard work and dedication.
That's the key to success, isn't it? It has to be fun.
More power than all the success slogans ever penned by human hand is the realization for every man that he has but one boss. That boss is the man - he - himself.
It may be the optimist in me, but I think America has a uniquely powerful and capacious glue internally. The American identity has always been ethnically and religiously neutral, so within one generation you have Italian-Americans, Irish-Americans, Chinese-Americans, Jamaican-Americans - they feel American. It's a huge success story.
These rules may seem simple enough, but it will require great morale and physical courage to adhere to them. But if carried out in the strict sense of the word it will surely lead to a greater success than could otherwise be attained.
I got my degree. More importantly, I got a key to American opportunity. That's who we are - a nation that rewards ambition with opportunity. Where hard work can lead to success, no matter where you start.
I've worked with people at different stages of their careers and different success levels, and one thing I've noticed about the guys at the top is they're so relaxed and calm - it's about not having anything to prove except doing good work.
I've always valued and encouraged teamwork, and that collaborative spirit of we versus I is core to Intuit's success. Innovation has been part of Intuit's DNA for nearly 30 years.
Success without honor is an unseasoned dish; it will satisfy your hunger, but it won't taste good.
I hate to be a failure. I hate and regret the failure of my marriages. I would gladly give all my millions for just one lasting marital success.
We just want to win. That's the bottom line. I think a lot of times people may become content with one championship or a little bit of success, but we don't really reflect on what we've done in the past. We focus on the present.
I realise that I do not change the course of history. I am an actor, I do a movie, that's the end of it. You have to realise we are just clowns for hire. After I had success it was great, at first, not to worry about money. It was on my mind when I was growing up.
Happy people are ignoramuses and glory is nothing else but success, and to achieve it one only has to be cunning.
Learning to appreciate those things that aren't related to success has proved the biggest lesson.
All that is necessary to break the spell of inertia and frustration is this: Act as if it were impossible to fail. That is the talisman, the formula, the command of right about face which turns us from failure to success.
If I could offer but one helpful hint to young Hoosiers hoping to better their odds for success in life, I would simply note the importance of thoughtful reading.
Passion is what gives meaning to our lives. It's what allows us to achieve success beyond our wildest imagination. Try to find a career path that you have a passion for.
My definition, a definition in the drill books from the time that General Von Steuben wrote the regulations for General George Washington, the definition of the object of military training is success in battle... It wouldn't be any sense to have a military organization on the backs of the American taxpayers with any other definition.
You lead with direction, and you try to lead by example. I try to be there when things are not good and obviously share the spoils of success.
Ask yourself the secret of your success. Listen to your answer, and practice it.
I was sure I'd set the world on fire, and it was hard for a young feller like me to realize the truth - that I hadn't set the world on fire, and I was totally unprepared to handle the consequences if 'The Big Trail' had been a success and launched me as a star.
For true success ask yourself these four questions: Why? Why not? Why not me? Why not now?
Success produces confidence; confidence relaxes industry, and negligence ruins the reputation which accuracy had raised.
The biggest start-up successes - from Henry Ford to Bill Gates to Mark Zuckerberg - were pioneered by people from solidly middle-class backgrounds. These founders were not wealthy when they began. They were hungry for success, but knew they had a solid support system to fall back on if they failed.
Fame or perceived success - it all comes from groupthink.
It goes without saying that it's hard to attain a certain level of success.
We can come to look upon the deaths of our enemies with as much regret as we feel for those of our friends, namely, when we miss their existence as witnesses to our success.
Success didn't spoil me, I've always been insufferable.
No one ever attains success by simply doing what is required of him.
Happiness is not always through success. Equally, the constant pursuit of success is sure unhappiness. But we have to find the balance. My own thoughts are that parenting is very personal. And we all feel enormous insecurity about parenting. What are they going to think of us 20 years down the line?
I'm quite detached from failure and success. Once a shooting is done, I kind of close that chapter in my life.
I don't really measure success by anything other than if I am happy. That is success to me. Am I happy waking up every morning? And despite the challenges of running my own business, do I look forward to going to work? Absolutely.
Achieve success in any area of life by identifying the optimum strategies and repeating them until they become habits.
Macro-trading requires a high degree of skill, focus and repetition. Life events, such as birth, divorce, death of a loved one and other emotional highs and lows are obstacles to success in this specific field of finance.
Personal satisfaction is the most important ingredient of success.
I can tell you from experience that God's help and presence in our lives is vital. He is the Author of all true success and everything that is good-without Him, we can do nothing of true value.
Success is not how many zeroes your bank account has. It's about making the most of the life you have.
Young man, the secret of my success is that an early age I discovered that I was not God.
Married couples who work together to build and maintain a business assume broad responsibilities. Not only is their work important to our local and national economies, but their success is central to the well-being of their families.
I have had all of the disadvantages required for success.
Success is the sweetest revenge.
I mean, we are tribal by nature, and sometimes success and material wealth can divide and separate - it's not a new philosophy I'm sharing - more than hardship, hardship tends to unify.
I think true success is intrinsic... It's love. It's kindness. It's community.
Comedy was my sport. It taught me how to roll with the punches. Failure is the exact same as success when it comes to comedy because it just keeps coming. It never stops.
Success means your options multiply. Size increases complexity, and complexity can confuse vision.
Evolution does not necessarily favor the longest-lived. It doesn't necessarily favor the biggest or the strongest or the fastest, and not even the smartest. Evolution favors those creatures best adapted to their environment. That is the sole test of survival and success.
Years of imprisoning and beheading writers never succeeded in shutting them out. However, placing them in the heart of a market and rewarding them with a lot of commercial success, has.
Personally, I don't like the term 'success.' It's too arbitrary and too relative a thing. It's usually someone else's definition, not yours.
You learn a lot about yourself when you have success for a while. Like, a lot of things that you think are really important aren't. But you need that process.
Fame necessarily isn't really tied to success at all. Fame is just being recognized for doing what you do, whether it's good or bad. Osama bin Laden was famous.
My success is the team's success. It's one of those things to a certain degree that it's effort and ability but also how I benefit from what my teammates do, and then it is up to me to perform.
Spend enough time around success and failure, and you learn a reverence for possibility.
It is no coincidence that our country has not been attacked since 9-11. Our initiatives to protect the homeland and aggressively take the fight to the terrorists have been factors in that success.
For Nirvana, putting out their first major-label record was like getting into a new car. But the runaway success was like suddenly discovering that the car was a Ferrari and the accelerator pedal was Krazy Glued to the floorboard.
We all learn lessons in life. Some stick, some don't. I have always learned more from rejection and failure than from acceptance and success.
I want to let you in on a little secret: I don't always feel like I'm a success. That's right. There are plenty of times when I feel like I've just totally messed up and failed to connect with the people I'm trying to communicate with.
With five chances on each hand and one unwavering aim, no boy, however poor, need despair. There is bread and success for every youth under the American flag who has energy and ability to seize his opportunity.
The only thing I have learnt over the years is that if you enjoy your work and put in the best efforts, it will show. If you follow this process, things work out. But if you go chasing a formula, success will elude you.
I think it's way harder when you have success, 'cause people tend to not treat you the same or look at you the same because they see the success or the money you make.
Most great people have attained their greatest success just one step beyond their greatest failure.
Anybody who succeeds is helping people. The secret to success is find a need and fill it; find a hurt and heal it; find a problem and solve it.
As my father used to tell me, the only true sign of success in life is being able to do for a living that which makes you happy.
There will always be competition, especially in showbiz. There's always someone younger and hungrier standing behind you; there's always someone with more contacts; there's always someone whose grandfather or father is a filmmaker. I think your job is just to be there 100% - you work hard, and there are no shortcuts to success.
Your success and happiness lies in you. Resolve to keep happy, and your joy and you shall form an invincible host against difficulties.
No experience is a cause of success or failure. We do not suffer from the shock of our experiences, so-called trauma - but we make out of them just what suits our purposes.
I have no problem with the people who work hard to get success. But I think people are very jealous about success. I work very hard and they don't appreciate that.
The conflict between religion and science is inherent and (very nearly) zero-sum. The success of science often comes at the expense of religious dogma; the maintenance of religious dogma always comes at the expense of science.
There is simply no substitute for hard work when it comes to achieving success.
Success is a beast. And it actually puts the emphasis on the wrong thing. You get away with more instead of looking within.
My success was not based so much on any great intelligence but on great common sense.
Problems or successes, they all are the results of our own actions. Karma. The philosophy of action is that no one else is the giver of peace or happiness. One's own karma, one's own actions are responsible to come to bring either happiness or success or whatever.
Success comes to those who have an entire mountain of gold that they continually mine, not those who find one nugget and try to live on it for fifty years.
Whenever you have taken up work in hand, you must see it to the finish. That is the ultimate secret of success. Never, never, never give up!
In a person's career, well, if you're process-oriented and not totally outcome-oriented, then you're more likely to be success. I often say 'pursue excellence, ignore success.' Success is a by-product of excellence.
Your positive action combined with positive thinking results in success.
Corporate executives and business owners need to realize that there can be no compromise when it comes to ethics, and there are no easy shortcuts to success. Ethics need to be carefully sown into the fabric of their companies.
The love of what you do, combined with your belief in what you do, will not determine your success. It will determine how hard you will work and how dedicated you will be to achieving it. Success just shows up from there.
Success is not to be pursued; it is to be attracted by the person you become.
I do not think there is any thrill that can go through the human heart like that felt by the inventor as he sees some creation of the brain unfolding to success... such emotions make a man forget food, sleep, friends, love, everything.
A person has to remember that the road to success is always under construction. You have to get that through your head. That it is not easy becoming successful.
Success is a journey, not a destination.
Success is a journey, not a destination. The doing is often more important than the outcome.
Finding good partners is the key to success in anything: in business, in marriage and, especially, in investing.
True success is overcoming the fear of being unsuccessful.
Everyone who achieves success in a great venture, solves each problem as they came to it. They helped themselves. And they were helped through powers known and unknown to them at the time they set out on their voyage. They keep going regardless of the obstacles they met.
Ambition is the path to success, persistence is the vehicle you arrive in.
Your success depends mainly upon what you think of yourself and whether you believe in yourself.
I feel like I want to take care of everyone and I also feel this terrible guilt if I am unable to. And I have felt this way ever since all this success started.
Luxury is the wolf at the door and its fangs are the vanities and conceits germinated by success. When an artist learns this, he knows where the danger is.
Starting a business isn't for everyone, and it's not what you should do if you aren't sure what else to do. It requires thick skin and the willingness to carry a great deal of stress, sometimes alone. It's more often a life of failure than a life of success, and the majority of successes came after a long road of disappointment, and often shame.
Creative risk taking is essential to success in any goal where the stakes are high. Thoughtless risks are destructive, of course, but perhaps even more wasteful is thoughtless caution which prompts inaction and promotes failure to seize opportunity.
Success in management requires learning as fast as the world is changing.
I think that my biggest attribute to any success that I have had is hard work. There really is no substitute for working hard.
Private dreams are the most powerful. You have to dream of success to make it happen, and if you don't believe in yourself, nobody else will. But that doesn't mean you have to go around telling everyone about it.
You just hope that you will get the opportunity to do what you love and pay your bills, and that is being a success as an actor.
If there is any one secret of success, it lies in the ability to get the other person's point of view and see things from that person's angle as well as from your own.
I must admit that I personally measure success in terms of the contributions an individual makes to her or his fellow human beings.
Success is having to worry about every damn thing in the world, except money.
The decadent international but individualistic capitalism in the hands of which we found ourselves after the war is not a success. It is not intelligent. It is not beautiful. It is not just. It is not virtuous. And it doesn't deliver the goods.
Thought is the original source of all wealth, all success, all material gain, all great discoveries and inventions, and of all achievement.
Microsoft has had two goals in the last 10 years. One was to copy the Mac, and the other was to copy Lotus' success in the spreadsheet - basically, the applications business. And over the course of the last 10 years, Microsoft accomplished both of those goals. And now they are completely lost.
What material success does is provide you with the ability to concentrate on other things that really matter. And that is being able to make a difference, not only in your own life, but in other people's lives.
A constant struggle, a ceaseless battle to bring success from inhospitable surroundings, is the price of all great achievements.
The definition of success to me is not necessarily a price tag, not fame, but having a good life, and being able to say I did the right thing at the end of the day.
We must walk consciously only part way toward our goal, and then leap in the dark to our success.
Success and money can really be quite blinding.
All those who are around me are the bridge to my success, so they are all important.
After a point of time, when you get success and fame, money and everything, the purpose of life has to be redefined. For me, I think that purpose is to build bridges. Artists can do that very easily, more than politicians.
Kids are meant to believe that their stepping stone to massive money is 'The X Factor.' Luck is great, but most of life is hard work. We do not celebrate people who have made success out of serious hard work.
Whenever I've had success, I never learn from it. Success usually breeds a degree of hubris. When you fail, that's when you learn.
True leadership lies in guiding others to success. In ensuring that everyone is performing at their best, doing the work they are pledged to do and doing it well.
If I write a book where all I've ever experienced is success, people won't take a positive lesson from it. In being candid, I have to own up to my own failures, both in my marriage and in my work environment.
I think with the success of, like, every summer there has been a couple R-rated comedies that have done so well; I think it is so nice to see that people are turning out to see these movies, and it doesn't seem to be as big a stigma with the studios anymore.
Every person who wins in any undertaking must be willing to cut all sources of retreat. Only by doing so can one be sure of maintaining that state of mind known as a burning desire to win - essential to success.
Raising children is an uncertain thing; success is reached only after a life of battle and worry.
Singleness of purpose is one of the chief essentials for success in life, no matter what may be one's aim.
I see my upbringing as a great success story. By disciplining me, my parents inculcated self-discipline. And by restricting my choices as a child, they gave me so many choices in my life as an adult. Because of what they did then, I get to do the work I love now.
Success has nothing to do with what you gain in life or accomplish for yourself. It's what you do for others.
Success is about enjoying what you have and where you are, while pursuing achievable goals.
Sustainability is the key to our survival on this planet and will also determine success on all levels.
How many a man has thrown up his hands at a time when a little more effort, a little more patience would have achieved success.
Every failure is a step to success.
If you set your goals ridiculously high and it's a failure, you will fail above everyone else's success.
The delusions of self-love cannot be prevented, but intellectual misconceptions as to the means of achieving success may be corrected.
I love 'Braxton Family Values!' I love seeing a strong family unit striving for success while dealing with everyday struggles like everyone else. Whatever drama they find themselves in, they find a way to solve it and get back to the importance of family. A positive show for sure.
Success in golf depends less on strength of body than upon strength of mind and character.
The secret to success, to parenting, to life, is to not count up the cost. Don't focus on all the steps it will take. Don't stare into the abyss at the giant leap it will take. That view will keep you from taking the next small step.
Whether you come from a council estate or a country estate, your success will be determined by your own confidence and fortitude.
I think I was born with the drive for success because I have a certain gene.
Hope is a state of mind, not of the world. Hope, in this deep and powerful sense, is not the same as joy that things are going well, or willingness to invest in enterprises that are obviously heading for success, but rather an ability to work for something because it is good.
I wonder how many times people give up just before a breakthrough - when they are on the very brink of success.
Positive thinking is the key to success in business, education, pro football, anything that you can mention. I go out there thinking that I'm going to complete every pass.
You might well remember that nothing can bring you success but yourself.
Rockefeller once explained the secret of success. 'Get up early, work late - and strike oil.'
My father ran for Congress in 2004, and I got a sense that there is no way to achieve much success without a certain amount of compromise.
There is no evidence that success in business will make us happy people or allow us to have happy families.
I'm lucky to be part of a team who help to make me look good, and they deserve as much of the credit for my success as I do for the hard work we have all put in on the training ground.
Though I had success in my research both when I was mad and when I was not, eventually I felt that my work would be better respected if I thought and acted like a 'normal' person.
Every city across the country that has successfully renewed and revitalized itself points to a robust education system as its fundamental key to success.
I don't know what keeps me going. Sometimes I wonder... I think it's just pure perseverance and wanting to succeed and having that burning desire to always have success.
If I believe that I became the best quarterback that I could possibly be, the best football player that I could possibly be... That's how I'm going to measure my career as a success or not.
I never feel any pressure about a film. What is meant to happen will happen. I have seen failure as well as success several times.
A lot of my success is because of what I look like. I know that.
There's not an instruction manual on how to deal with success, so you just have to rely on having great friends and a good team.
The great dream merchant Disney was a success because make-believe was what everyone seemed to need in a spiritually empty land.
There's no secret about success. Did you ever know a successful man who didn't tell you about it?
Teach success before teaching responsibility. Teach them to believe in themselves. Teach them to think, 'I'm not stupid'. No child wants to fail. Everyone wants to succeed.
A lot of people don't have near the amount of success as I've been blessed to have, and it's all about working hard and hoping that continues.
Nothing is as seductive as the assurance of success.
When I sit here and see that the eight brothers from the neighborhood that I grew up with still have success, it had to be magical. I doubt if you get another 'Wu-Tang Clan.' That might be harder than getting the new 'Jackson Five.' Certain groups you only get one time, and we just happened to be that group.
If a man has been his mother's undisputed darling he retains throughout life the triumphant feeling, the confidence in success, which not seldom brings actual success along with it.
The lesson is, because there will be many lemons in life, to learn to make the proverbial lemonade - and be open and honest. That's the best way of doing damage control and positioning yourself for success.
However things may seem, no evil thing is success and no good thing is failure.
Breast cancer deaths in America have been declining for more than a decade. Much of that success is due to early detection and better treatments for women. I strongly encourage women to get a mammogram.
I like people who are able to keep pushing themselves and challenging themselves even after great success.
The hardest thing to find in life is balance - especially, the more success you have, the more you look to the other side of the gate.
The success that Americans are said to worship is success of a specific sort: accomplished not through hard work, primarily, but through the ingenious angle, the big break. Sit down at a lunch counter, stand back up a star. Invest in a new issue and watch it soar. Split a single atom, win a war.
A true measure of your worth includes all the benefits others have gained from your success.
But once you have some success in one style, the business wants to lock you in that vein forever.
I think success right now is not about how famous you are or how much you're getting paid, but it's more about if you're steadily working and you're happy with what you're doing.
One of my producers said this business is like a hamster on that little wheel thing that goes around and around. You may have a great day and get great ratings, but then you've got another show to do - whatever moment of success or happiness you have you've got to keep grinding it out for the next day.
A man came up to me at a party and asked if I wanted to be in his video game. I of course said yes. And then it turned out it was 'Assassin's Creed', so that was great. They let me ad lib a lot and mess about and be very snarky indeed, and I'm thrilled by the success of all their hard work.
If not for the success that medicine has made, I might be part of a much different story right now.
I've had my share of struggle. I believe, never take success to your head or failure to your heart.
We dissect failure a lot more than we dissect success.
Instead of this confusion, we need the unifying force of an official language, English, which is the language of success in America.
I don't take success very well, because I know it's fleeting. And the next day, it can all fall apart. I know that, too. So I don't get too high, and I don't get too low. You get through the world a lot easier that way.
My second book, Follow Me Down had some success, got good critical notices, went into a second printing and things like that, but Shiloh was by far the most successful of those first five novels.
My parents told me that education was the path to success - and they showed me, taking me to Head Start while they were pursuing their own college degrees.
My dad told me, 'It takes fifteen years to be an overnight success', and it took me seventeen and a half years.
If you have a successful run, everything comes to you. Nothing succeeds like success.
Seeking an acquisition from the start is more than just bad advice for an entrepreneur. For the entrepreneur it leads to short term tactical decisions rather than company-building decisions and in my view often reduces the probability of success.
Refuse to accept the belief that your professional relevance, career success or financial security turns on the next update on the latest technology. Sometimes it's good to put the paddle down and just let the canoe glide.
The freedom to fail is vital if you're going to succeed. Most successful people fail from time to time, and it is a measure of their strength that failure merely propels them into some new attempt at success.
Sometimes, because of my success, I am afraid that I was not a good father. With the first two I was too strong, and with the other three I was too weak.
It's the price of success: people start to think you're omnipotent.
I always envisioned myself being a rapper and being in the game and having success, but you never know what it feels like or how you're going to be when you're there.
The best revenge in the world is success.
Fame is something that is bestowed upon you because of success. Success is something you have to chase.
I like the idea of working in different genres and transcending genres and hopefully finding success, and ultimately make movies people like.
Awards are not the only markers of success; I don't judge myself just based on them. I believe that each cinema-goer has his own mental trophies.
Starting a band is the easy part. Once you've formed the band, you have to tell a story, and that story requires songs. And not just good songs, but great songs. After a while, great songs won't do - they have to be the best. Success doesn't make it any easier. Each time I start a new record, it's a brand-new search.
People should decide what success means for them, and not be distracted by accepting others' definitions of success.
Our limitations and success will be based, most often, on your own expectations for ourselves. What the mind dwells upon, the body acts upon.
If you look at anyone who has achieved great success and wealth, people like Warren Buffett, Oprah Winfrey, or Lance Armstrong, they have all focused intensely in order to win.
In every stump speech I give, I speak about the fact that people who dream and achieve enormous success do not make us poorer - they make us better off.
I have found no greater satisfaction than achieving success through honest dealing and strict adherence to the view that, for you to gain, those you deal with should gain as well.
But I think it's more normal for my team to have no success than it is to win two consecutive European cups.
There is no scientific answer for success. You can't define it. You've simply got to live it and do it.
Everyone has determination - it's a question of how you use it. Hers is based on power and success and conquering; she doesn't care what she has to do or who gets hurt in the process. In that way we're very, very different.
Four years of football are calculated to breed in the average man more of the ingredients of success in life than almost any academic course he takes.
If I remain true to what's in my heart, that's all the success I need.
I was, if you like, a successful schoolboy in that I had a degree of talent in all the required things that make you a success at school.
I think the success of a talk show depends on how true it is to the personality of the person hosting it. The shows I really admire, like 'Oprah' and 'Ellen,' are distinctively like their hosts, so I think my show will be successful only if we try to stay consistent to my own sense of myself.
The Great Idea in advertising is far more than the sum of the recognition scores, the ratings and all the other superficial indicators of its success; it is in the realm of myth, to which measurements cannot apply.
In Hollywood a marriage is a success if it outlasts milk.
Success needs no explanation. Failure does not have one that matters.
Monetary success is not success. Career success is not success. Life, someone that loves you, giving to others, doing something that makes you feel complete and full. That is success. And it isn't dependent on anyone else.
Success is very ephemeral. You depend entirely on the desire of others, which makes it difficult to relax.
At the end of the day, both men and women who become CEOs have showed tenacity and hard work to succeed in their careers. It takes not just skills but also extreme dedication and commitment. And regardless of gender, CEOs are measured by the same criteria - the growth and success of the business.
What I have in common with the character in 'Truman' is this incredible need to please people. I feel like I want to take care of everyone and I also feel this terrible guilt if I am unable to. And I have felt this way ever since all this success started.
You always pass failure on your way to success.
Temporary success can be achieved in spite of lack of other fundamental qualities, but no advancements can be maintained without hard work.
Whether a party can have much success without a woman present I must ask others to decide, but one thing is certain, no party is any fun unless seasoned with folly.
One is never ready for success. It consecrates and looses you at the same time.
For some reason, we can't just enjoy somebody else's success. Somehow, that's going to affect us. If they have more, then I have less - and I don't know why.
But I like not these great success of yours; for I know how jealous are the gods.
I don't measure my success anymore by the Grammys. I can't because I'll just end up crushed.
Success comes to a writer as a rule, so gradually that it is always something of a shock to him to look back and realize the heights to which he has climbed.
Work/life benefits allow companies meaningful ways for responding to their employees' needs; they can be a powerful tool for transforming a workforce and driving a business' success.
Success is different for everyone; everybody defines it in their own way, and that's part of what we do in 'Close Up', finding what it was each person wanted to achieve and what their willingness to sacrifice for that was.
I believe success is preparation, because opportunity is going to knock on your door sooner or later but are you prepared to answer that?
As an outside; don't worry about failure, because failure will take care of itself. Focus on success.
Past performance speaks a tremendous amount about one's ability and likelihood for success.
There's a lot of blood, sweat, and guts between dreams and success.
I passionately believe that's it's not just what you say that counts, it's also how you say it - that the success of your argument critically depends on your manner of presenting it.
Anyone who has to fight, even with the most modern weapons, against an enemy in complete command of the air, fights like a savage against modern European troops, under the same handicaps and with the same chances of success.
An investment said to have an 80% chance of success sounds far more attractive than one with a 20% chance of failure. The mind can't easily recognize that they are the same.
Maintaining spirituality and humanism are the keys to success. It's a balance.
Success is measured by your discipline and inner peace.
It takes 20 years to make an overnight success.
The line between failure and success is so fine that we scarcely know when we pass it: so fine that we are often on the line and do not know it.
If you carefully consider what you want to be said of you in the funeral experience, you will find your definition of success.
I remember one day sitting at the pool and suddenly the tears were streaming down my cheeks. Why was I so unhappy? I had success. I had security. But it wasn't enough. I was exploding inside.
I've been surrounded by a lot of people who felt that external success would result in them feeling good about themselves. But it just seems extremely unfulfilling to me.
When I look in the mirror, I see someone who's happy with how he looks, because I was never one of the handsome Hollywood people. And I've had success as I've gotten older, because I'm able to play characters. I no longer get the girl, but I get the part.
I had come to the point when I realized it was unlikely that my film career was going to move beyond a certain level of role. And I was - because I had graphic instances of it - handicapped by the success of Star Trek. A director would say, 'I don't want Jean-Luc Picard in my movie' - and this was compounded by X-Men as well.
This bikini made me a success.
What's weird is the Hot Boys and the whole New Orleans Cash Money thing had a really big impact on the Bay when that was popping off. I don't all the way understand it. I mean, I know that they were big everywhere and had a lot of commercial success in the mid to late '90s, but they were really, really felt in the Bay Area.
There could be no honor in a sure success, but much might be wrested from a sure defeat.
I think you can have moderate success by copying something else, but if you really want to knock it out of the park, you have to do something different and take chances.
Be careful of success; it has a dark side.
They thought I was a success as soon as I started paying the bills.
One goes through school, college, medical school and one's internship learning little or nothing about goodness but a good deal about success.
In working with top leaders and thought philosophers of our time, I will tell you that among their secrets of success is a regular practice of acknowledging and appreciating what they have. It can offer an oracle into the future because it not only tells you where you are, but it also helps clarify where you want to go in life.
No illusion is more crucial than the illusion that great success and huge money buy you immunity from the common ills of mankind, such as cars that won't start.
The key to Turkey's success has been its ability to reinvent itself as times change.
Obama's endorsement of gay marriage is hardly as consequential as Johnson's legislative success on civil rights.
People who make money often make mistakes, and even have major setbacks, but they believe they will eventually prosper, and they see every setback as a lesson to be applied in their move towards success.
In the digital age of 'overnight' success stories such as Facebook, the hard slog is easily overlooked.
Our economy is increasingly dependent on the success and integrity of the financial markets.
We're born with success. It is only others who point out our failures, and what they attribute to us as failure.
Yes I have made a lot of money and I have a lot of respect, my films have done well, and I know there are loads of loads of people who look up to me and really love me. I really just thought this is like a strange dream. I have never thought this is a success - I don't have a standard.
I've thought a lot about success, because it's very strange to me that I've been successful.
For success, the author must make the reader care about the destiny of the principals, and sustain this anxiety, or suspense, for about 100,000 words.
Nearly all monster stories depend for their success on Jack killing the Giant, Beowulf or St. George slaying the Dragon, Harry Potter triumphing over the basilisk. That is their inner grammar, and the whole shape of the story leads towards it.
No skill shapes a child's future success in school or in life more than the ability to read.
First-person narrators is the way I know how to write a book with the greatest power and chance of artistic success.
I haven't deliberately set out to play the blonde bombshell in my movies. In fact, it's probably been quite the opposite. After the success of The Mask, I wasn't offered all that many blonde bombshell parts, to be honest. I think people believed from the beginning that I could actually walk and talk at the same time.
I think that the entertainment industry itself has a history of chasing success. Any time a hit product comes out, all the other companies start chasing after that success and trying to recreate it by putting out similar products.
The success of a hat definitely lies with balancing the personality of the wearer with the type of occasion. Don't listen to those rules about face shape.
I think I've always been somebody, since the deaths of my father and brother, who was afraid to hope. So, I was more prepared for failure and for rejection than for success.
My mum was a wonderful mother. She died, aged 80, of Alzheimer's disease, which was dreadful to watch. I remember she said to me: 'Believe in yourself because no one else is going to do it for you.' I'm sure a lot of my success is due to her words of advice.
The fame of heroes owes little to the extent of their conquests and all to the success of the tributes paid to them.
If your goal is to make money, becoming an entrepreneur is a sucker's bet. Sure, some entrepreneurs make a lot of money, but if you calculate the amount of stress-inducing work and time it takes and multiply that by the low likelihood of success and eventual payoff, it is not a great way to get rich.
On 'Sufferer,' I'm talking about the younger generation that has no other option for success than to find a gun somewhere. I try to appeal to them: 'I know you a sufferer, but it doesn't mean that you can't or shouldn't expect any better.' It's a lot different than from what I usually say, like, 'Get busy, shake that thing.'
I don't see success as the goal. Obedience is the goal.
I go out there to win. People don't care if you die in this business. The only way I get back is with success.
Learning to celebrate success is a key component of learning how to win in the market.
It will, of course, be understood that directly or indirectly, soon or late, every advance in the sciences of human nature will contribute to our success in controlling human nature and changing it to the advantage of the common weal.
Betting on the success of innovative technologies in the marketplace can carry all the uncertainty and risk that betting on the next card in the deck does at a blackjack table in Las Vegas. There is a factor of randomness that must be factored in, but precisely how to do so is anyone's guess.
It's not about market share. If you have a successful company, you will get your market share. But to get a successful company, what do you have to have? The same metrics of success that your customer does.
Didn't Lionel Richie just make a country album? No one is giving him a hard time... and God bless him - I love Lionel and should be able to do what he wants to do, like Madonna should, too. Both are having success and I applaud them. If you don't like it, don't buy it. The ageism criticism is getting old.
There's a spectrum of those moments of connection and the moments we fail to connect, going from super-large successes to failures. Success would be love, I guess, and failure could still be love, but the bad side; and loss.
I grew up in Doncaster and have felt the love for football run through the town; it's for that reason that I have a real personal passion to make Doncaster Rovers a success story.
Happy Days was about a family... although the show was shot in the 70s, it was about a family in the 50s. I realized that kids were watching their parents grow up and the parents were watching themselves grow up. That was the key to the success of our show.
If you don't work hard, then you aren't going to have the success that you want. But if you work hard and dig in, then you are going to have the success that you want.
What we did ten years ago with the Playstation was a phenomenal success story for the company. That product had a ten year life cycle, which has never been done in this industry.
Sometimes success will get in the way of maturity - at least temporarily.
I would love to make my music and be completely anonymous, but that doesn't work. You can't have success and be faceless.
Success comes to you with luck and a lot of hard work, but it doesn't give you the right to be any better than anybody else.
The reason that Google was such a success is because they were the first ones to take advantage of the self-organizing properties of the web. It's in ecological sustainability. It's in the developmental power of entrepreneurship, the ethical power of democracy.
America's popular heroes have seldom been its great thinkers, and even less its scientists. The success of TV's 'Big Bang Theory,' which seems to give the lie to this claim, is more the exception that proves the rule.
There's two kinds of rock n' roll casualty: the one that has huge success and adoration, and then suddenly it stops. Or there's when you're in a band: it is all-consuming, so then you have the dream of that, and then the dream's taken away from you even before it happens.
I just felt it was my job to show that there is no easy way to success, and that anyone who gets even just one Top 40 hit deserves their moment in the sun. I accentuate the positive and eliminate the negative. That is the timeless thing.
We crave instant success these days. If you are a really good sprinter and long jumper, you don't want to spend two or three years on a whole new set of events. You're used to doing well and it's difficult to give that up.
People equate success with youth. And if you haven't had a certain amount of success by a certain time in your life, it's never going to happen. There's a fear about that. So people start lying about their age really young. I've never done that because I think it's so insignificant.
People who get involved with the success of something have to be given at least some share of that success.
Do what your inner soul tells you to do, regardless of any money or success it will bring you.
Fighting for one's freedom, struggling towards being free, is like struggling to be a poet or a good Christian or a good Jew or a good Muslim or good Zen Buddhist. You work all day long and achieve some kind of level of success by nightfall, go to sleep and wake up the next morning with the job still to be done. So you start all over again.
There are millions of Americans outside Washington who are tired of stale political arguments and are moving this country forward. They believe, and I believe, that here in America, our success should depend not on accident of birth, but the strength of our work ethic and the scope of our dreams.
When I meet with the founders of a new company, my advice is almost always, 'Do fewer things.' It's true of partnerships, marketing opportunities, anything that's taking up your time. The vast majority of things are distractions, and very few really matter to your success.
Ask any successful person to look back over the events of his or her life, and chances are there'll be a turning point of one kind or another. It doesn't matter if that success has come on a ball field or in a boardroom, in a research laboratory or on a campaign trail - it can usually be traced to some pivotal moment.
Be passionate and bold. Always keep learning. You stop doing useful things if you don't learn. So the last part to me is the key, especially if you have had some initial success. It becomes even more critical that you have the learning 'bit' always switched on.
I think our slow, humble beginnings in surf shops, ski shops, bike shops, and motorcycle shops have been extremely important for our success. GoPro is all about celebrating an active lifestyle and sharing that with other people. It's authentic. It's not a brand that we went out and bought a bunch of ads for to create.
Change can either challenge or threaten us. Your beliefs pave your way to success or block you.
Old age is like everything else. To make a success of it, you've got to start young.
If God has made the world a perfect mechanism, He has at least conceded so much to our imperfect intellect that in order to predict little parts of it, we need not solve innumerable differential equations, but can use dice with fair success.
People with a sense of humor tend to be less egocentric and more realistic in their view of the world and more humble in moments of success and less defeated in times of travail.
I believe we can accelerate our acumen, performance and success by leveraging our associations and spending time with people better than us.
Success isn't permanent and failure isn't fatal.
The only true measure of success is the ratio between what we might have done and what we might have been on the one hand, and the thing we have made and the things we have made of ourselves on the other.
A man with a silver spoon may get his share of supporters, but he can never be an inspiration for somebody! Patience and hard work are the key to every man's success.
I'm an American. We've translated democracy and brotherhood and equality into enterprise and opportunity and success - and that's getting Americanised.
You never achieve success unless you like what you are doing.
Perseverance - a lowly virtue whereby mediocrity achieves an inglorious success.
You've achieved success in your field when you don't know whether what you're doing is work or play.
I'm not hungry for success. I am only hungry for good work, and that is how it is with most superstars. Every day I tell myself how fortunate I am to be where I am.
To put it bluntly, there isn't one economic theory that can single-handedly explain Singapore's success; its economy combines extreme features of capitalism and socialism. All theories are partial; reality is complex.
Success in show business depends on your ability to make and keep friends.
Thus they have an idol that they petition for victory in war; another for success in their labors; and so for everything in which they seek or desire prosperity, they have their idols, which they honor and serve.
I have had unsuccessful films, but I learned a lot from those films. I give my failures as much importance as my success.
The world is apt to judge of everything by the success; and whoever has ill fortune will hardly be allowed a good name.
Not just my parents, but teachers, friends, mentors - a host of people are to be thanked for any success I have had, and a whole lot of just plain luck.
Success is never final, but failure can be.
