My name is Brown. Pray excuse me. I've come about that business of the MacNabs. I have heard, you often help people out of such troubles. Pray excuse me if I am wrong.
Why, her mother won't let them get engaged.
Maggie MacNab and young Todhunter want to get married. Now, what can be more important than that?
but I had to follow Father Brown at once; it's nothing less than life or death.
James has been murdered, for all I can make out,
That man Glass has been with him again; I heard them talking through the door quite plain. Two separate voices: for James speaks low, with a burr, and the other voice was high and quavery.
What is there about Mr Glass and his money troubles that should impel such urgency?
I tried to break down the door and couldn't,
in point of fact I was just putting your case before this gentleman, and his view--
I do not think this young lady is so Celtic as I had supposed. As I have nothing else to do, I will put on my hat and stroll down town with you.
aren't you going to untie the man first?
I say `old' with intention, though not with certainty
might it not be as well to untie Mr Todhunter?
Our lesson from the drinking-vessels does not end here,
if you don't let me pass to untie him I'll run outside and scream for the police.
No; I think these ropes will do very well till your friends the police bring the handcuffs.
I have looked at all the knots on Mr Todhunter,
do you mean that Todhunter can tie himself up all alone and untie himself all alone?
Can't you see it in the man's face? Why, look at his eyes!
the eyes have certainly a singular expression. But I should interpret those transverse wrinkles as expressing rather such slight psychological abnormality--
but what on earth can he be laughing at?
not to put too fine a point on it, I think he is laughing at you. And indeed, I'm a little inclined to laugh at myself, now I know about it.
I have no notion what you are talking about,
that's the first idea to get fixed; the absence of Mr Glass. He is so extremely absent. I suppose,
that there was never anybody so absent as Mr Glass.
he is absent from the Nature of Things, so to speak.
before we go on to the hundred and one other evidences, let us take the first proof we found; the first fact we fell over when we fell into this room. If there is no Mr Glass, whose hat is this?
I said it was his hat. Or, if you insist on a shade of difference, a hat that is his.
if you will walk down the street to the nearest hatter's shop, you will see that there is, in common speech, a difference between a man's hat and the hats that are his.
can get money out of his stock of new hats. What could Todhunter get out of this one old hat?
Rabbits, ribbons, sweetmeats, goldfish, rolls of coloured paper,
Didn't you see it all when you found out the faked ropes? It's just the same with the sword. Mr Todhunter hasn't got a scratch on him, as you say; but he's got a scratch in him, if you follow me.
Do you mean inside Mr Todhunter's clothes?
I do not mean inside Mr Todhunter's clothes,
Well, what in the name of Bedlam do you mean?
Don't you know they speak first in their natural voice, and then answer themselves in just that shrill, squeaky, unnatural voice that you heard?
You are certainly a very ingenious person,
Well, I've seen you in many costumes in the green room; but I never expected to see you dressed up as an Englishman.
is not the costume of an Englishman, but of the Italian of the future.
I confess I prefer the Italian of the past.
You cannot make Italians really progressive; they are too intelligent. Men who see the short cut to good living will never go by the new elaborate roads.
Well, to me Marconi, or D'Annunzio, is the star of Italy
That is why I have become a Futurist--and a courier.
Is that the last of your list of trades? And whom are you conducting?
Oh, a man of the name of Harrogate, and his family, I believe.
But I am a rather curious sort of courier.
But I should suggest a suspension of your critique of the banker, for here he comes.
that all that country isn't ruled by the King of Italy, but by the King of Thieves. Who is the King of Thieves?
would never be allowed in England; perhaps, after all, we had better choose another route. But the courier thought it perfectly safe.
I have been over it twenty times. There may have been some old jailbird called a King in the time of our grandmothers; but he belongs to history if not to fable. Brigandage is utterly stamped out.
If Signor Muscari were English be would still be looking for highwaymen in Wandsworth. Believe me, there is no more danger of being captured in Italy than of being scalped in Boston.
Do you really think the pass is dangerous?
One is never thinking of the real sorrow,
the secret of the volcano; that is also the secret of the revolution--that a thing can be violent and yet fruitful.
if I die tonight I die unmarried and a fool.
Now why on earth have we fallen just here?
it can't be hers! Has her sorrow come on her already?
We have fallen into heaven; it is a sign. Mortals climb up and they fall down; but it is only gods and goddesses who can fall upwards.
perhaps the poison isn't hers; perhaps it's one of Muscari's melodramatic tricks.
This was a trap. Ezza, if you will oblige me by shooting the coachman first, we can cut our way out yet. There are only six of them.
happens to be a servant of Mr Harrogate's.
he was bribed to upset his master. Then put the lady in the middle, and we will break the line up there--with a rush.
You thought, Muscari, I was the failure among our schoolfellows,
and you thought you were the success. But I have succeeded more than you and fill a bigger place in history. I have been acting epics while you have been writing them.
Will you stand there talking nonsense about yourself with a woman to save and three strong men to help you? What do you call yourself?
I am the King of Thieves, and I welcome you all to my summer palace.
This pretty little nest where we are all picnicking,
that's much more probable. The poison belongs to this robber-chief, of course. He carries it so that he may never be captured, like Cato.
do people still think me too romantic? Are there, I wonder, any brigands left in the mountains?
I am puzzled about Ezza or Montano, or whatever his name is. He seems to me much more inexplicable as a brigand even than he was as a courier.
Santa Maria! I should have thought the brigand was plain enough.
All my riddles, however, revolve round our bandit chief,
You may think you enlighten me, but you are leading me deeper in the dark. What may be the third objection to the King of the Thieves?
an Italian gentleman has led the way. You wouldn't have it said that the English hung back.
it is useless. We must submit to our lot.
Is your courage a sham as well as your honesty?
offer her everything you can; offer her heaven and earth if you've got them. The time is short.
and be ready to rescue her from the rescue.
when you were robbed of two thousand pounds.
Samuel Harrogate, I arrest you in the name of the law for embezzlement of the funds of the Hull and Huddersfield Bank.
the very name of your imagined God will have echoed for the last time in the ear of man.
Of course we must help the master in every way, but--
He may have excellent reasons for not meeting the man himself, but--
I will act for you, sir. I am the Duc de Valognes.
You are sure the grey envelope was in the left cupboard?
The grey envelope-- it was a white envelope really--was--
If it had only just been grey! Hang it all, it might as well have been grey. But if it was white, the whole business is black. The Doctor has been dabbling in some of the old brimstone after all.
But I tell you he couldn't have written such a note!
The note is utterly wrong about the facts. And innocent or guilty, Dr Hirsch knew all about the facts.
The man who wrote that note knew all about the facts,
He could never have got 'em so wrong without knowing about 'em. You have to know an awful lot to be wrong on every subject--like the devil.
I mean a man telling lies on chance would have told some of the truth,
Suppose a person in a position of trust,
if Hirsch is not better than a timid treason-monger...
he's not a patch on my principal; and I shall go through with it. Old Dubosc may be a bit mad, but he's a sort of patriot after all.
Dubosc's all right in that way. You don't doubt him?
If all you can suggest is that notion of a message conveyed by contraries, I call it uncommonly clever, but...well, what would you call it?
I have just come from this Colonel of ours. He is packing up to leave the country, and he asks us to make his excuses sur le terrain.
then and there--before everybody-- when the swords are drawn. And you and I have to do it while he is leaving the country.
He can't be afraid of that little Hirsch! Confound it!
some plot of the Jews and Freemasons. It's meant to work up glory for Hirsch...
Where did you last see our precious Colonel?
He's round at the Hotel Saint Louis by the Elysee, where we drove with him. He's packing up, I tell you.
for a very short journey. For one of the shortest, in fact. But we may still be in time to catch him if we go there in a motor-cab.
He lives a very lonely life; he has had to do everything for himself.
Well, if he's ambitious, he ought to be satisfied now,
All Paris will cheer him now our cursed Colonel has turned tail.
there is something about this place that--
that fellow's disappeared. Vanished, like a blasted fairy!
He's only gone into one of these garden doors,
Dubosc's escape is more elaborate than we thought,
but I suppose he is escaping from France.
I know what this place is now! Why, it's the back of the street where old Hirsch lives. I thought I could recognize the back of a house as well as the back of a man.
There are people in Paris who will cure them of such morbid fancies,
They will jolly well have to meet if we capture them and force them to fight.
They will not meet on the Day of Judgement,
If God Almighty held the truncheon of the lists, if St Michael blew the trumpet for the swords to cross--even then, if one of them stood ready, the other would not come.
why on earth shouldn't they meet like other people?
They contradict each other. They cancel out, so to speak.
I must show this stupid man where to go,
What's that creature down the passage? Is this some of your tricks?
Miss Rome sent for me, and I came as quickly as I could. I have come too late.
If I find I haven't the nerve to do it with that dagger I can do it in a month with drink.
but I'll have blood for this before I die. Not yours--but I think I know whose.
Looks a cannibal sort of chap, don't he?
This poor fellow was gone when I got across to him.
I remember he used to watch her wherever she walked more than--anybody. She was his air, and he's dried up. He's just dead.
if I say you have done all you can to hurt?
We know there's blood on the brass now. And so we shall never know whether there was blood on it before.
so did Captain Cutler. That's what seems so improbable.
I had noticed the fact before, when Captain Cutler first entered it.
what was the outline like? Was it, for instance, like the figure of the murdered woman?
Will you tell his lordship how you knew it was a man?
I'm afraid it is the vulgar test of trousers,
When I saw daylight between the long legs I was sure it was a man, after all.
So you did think at first it was a woman?
You used a rather remarkable expression,
What do you mean by saying that it looked more like a beast than a man or a woman?
but when the brute has huge humped shoulders like a chimpanzee, and bristles sticking out of its head like a pig--
Never mind whether its hair was like a pig's,
A black shape was seen in the passage. And you say you saw the black shape. Well, what shape was it?
was short and thick, but had two sharp, black projections curved upwards on each side of the head or top, rather like horns, and--
It was the devil come to eat Protestants.
but there is something about you that makes me think you are trying to tell the truth. Well, who was the man you saw in the passage?
Your lordship will allow me to cross-examine?
You have heard about this dagger; you know the experts say the crime was committed with a short blade?
If Parkinson did it with that pantomime spear,
he must have thrust from four yards away. How do you account for signs of struggle, like the dress dragged off the shoulder?
because it was caught in a panel that slid to just behind her. She struggled to free herself, and as she did so Parkinson came out of the prisoner's room and lunged with the spear.
It was a looking-glass on the other side,
When I was in the dressing-room I noticed that some of them could probably be slid out into the passage.
So you really mean that when you looked down that passage, the man you saw was yourself--in a mirror?
Yes, my lord; that was what I was trying to say,
but they asked me for the shape; and our hats have corners just like horns, and so I--
Do you really mean to say that when Sir Wilson Seymour saw that wild what-you-call-him with curves and a woman's hair and a man's trousers, what he saw was Sir Wilson Seymour?
And you mean to say that when Captain Cutler saw that chimpanzee with humped shoulders and hog's bristles, he simply saw himself?
you should know your own figure in a looking-glass, when two such distinguished men don't?
Really, my lord, I don't know unless it's because I don't look at it so often.
it reminds me of that interesting idea in the Dark Ages that blood would flow from a corpse if the murderer touched it.
that you think the two methods equally valuable?
has been guaranteed by some of the greatest American men of science.
What sentimentalists men of science are!
it might point pretty straight at something or other.
There's a disadvantage in a stick pointing straight,
Savage Murder of a Warder. Convict Escapes,
Well, the literary style is somewhat improved,
if you had found he was a popular athlete practising a mile race.
We soon found out who he was; but I had guessed it with the first glint of the moon on him.
because you had read in the newspaper cutting that morning that a convict had run away.
I've been told a bullet is not half so useful without it.
Last-Trick Todd counts for a great deal in this rum affair.
that the reliable machine always has to be worked by an unreliable machine.
Criminals also can be as cool as cucumbers,
is just what I'm going to give you. I tried the machine first just in order to test the thing in other ways afterwards and the machine, sir, is right.
Why should he be innocent of that crime?
I fear you don't read the Society papers properly,
He felt his plight and recent panic were hardly patrician,
so he tried to keep the name back at first. But he was just going to tell it you, when
when a woman found another name for him.
I'm afraid you neglect the fashionable press rather,
Last-Trick's Strayed Revellers: Mirthful Incident near Pilgrim's Pond.
Astounding Escape of Millionaire's Daughter with Convict. She had Arranged Freak Dinner. Now Safe in--
If you've got ten minutes, I wish you'd follow that man with the false nose.
I want you to find out; I ask it as a favour. He went down there
and can't have passed three lamp-posts yet. I only want to know the direction.
Why do you say that? How do you know it's false?
It doesn't say `Sela', like the thing in the Psalms; I read it like that myself when I was wool-gathering just now; it says `Ales.'
from outside the place looks--well, it is a perfectly decent place--but ladies like you don't--don't generally think so. They never go into such places from choice, except--
Except an unfortunate few who don't go in to drink milk.
Only to arm myself with knowledge enough to help you, if ever you freely ask my help.
Well, if you're so keen on my conversation, perhaps you'll answer my question.
I had the honour to ask you why you thought the man's nose was false.
The wax always spots like that just a little in this weather,
I don't say it's the sort of nose one would wear out of mere foppery,
This man, I think, wears it because his real nose is so much nicer.
There was a crooked man and he went a crooked mile.... That man, I fancy, has gone a very crooked road--by following his nose.
I don't want to force your confidence by a hair,
But I think you could tell me more about that than I can tell you.
You are more of a mystery than all the others,
but I feel there might be a heart in your mystery.
is a maze with no centre. That is why atheism is only a nightmare.
except why I am telling you; and that I don't know.
Cab to Wagga Wagga, 379, Mafeking Avenue, Putney.
Miss Carstairs, will you be at home if we call at your Fulham place in an hour and a half hence?
Of course the superficial, on reflection,
And now, take it from the start. It lies between few people, but at least three. You want one person for suicide; two people for murder; but at least three people for blackmail
there must be one to be exposed; one to threaten exposure; and one at least whom exposure would horrify.
You miss a logical step. Three persons are needed as ideas. Only two are needed as agents.
don't you think it's the best thing she can do to stop outside--with you to look after her? You see, I rather guess you have guessed it all yourself.
I guessed on the sands and now I know; that was why I let him fall soft.
and he is a coin-collector of a somewhat singular kind.
that I have not lost all the family qualities.
was all that was left of the Carstairs Collection.
and so this great numismatist and coin-collector was nothing but a vulgar miser.
that in spite of everything, they are probably getting on very well.
Miss Barlow, take down a letter to Mr Finn, please.
do you happen to know what the Exmoor family has done to him? Who is he?
My friend here is Doctor Mull, the Duke's librarian. My name is Brown.
if that is the Duke, why does he damn all the old dukes like that?
You don't mean that fable about the fantastic ear?
but it is not outside ordinary science or natural law for a family to have some deformity frequently reappearing--such as one ear bigger than the other.
for the valet would want to brush his wig, too.
I don't know how you know it, Father Brown,
I don't mind telling you, Father, because it's really more defending the poor Duke than giving him away. Didn't you ever hear of the time when he very nearly lost all the estates?
for now I can take the whole estate. The law will give it to me.
There's one thing I don't like about the Duke's wig--the colour.
I dare say he's got good reason to cover his ears, like King Midas,
It's an ugly wig to be proud of--and an ugly story,
and that's true enough. My own mother's family had a banshee; and, now I come to think of it, it has comforted me in many a cold hour.
Why does he really hide the secret of what he does with the purple wig? Because it isn't the sort of secret we suppose.
you and all you believe, and all by which alone you live, would be the first to shrivel and perish. You would have an instant to know the great Nothing before you died.
The Cross of Christ be between me and harm,
I call your bluff. Take off that wig or I will knock it off.
What can it mean? Why, the man had nothing to hide. His ears are just like everybody else's.
and he did get the whole estate after all.
Miss Barlow, please take down a letter to Mr Finn.
Both eyes bright, she's all right; one eye winks, down she sinks.
She'd find a rum sort of thing in the garden,
which would not please her Renaissance eye. That Elizabethan domestic architecture is charming in its way; but it's against the very nature of it to break out into turrets.
Oh, there's a strange story about that, too,
She seems bothered by the queer tower just as we were.
When did your friend the Admiral tell you this family history?
he hasn't been to sea for some time now, though he is as keen on it as ever. I believe there's a family compact or something. Well, here's the landing stage; let's come ashore and see the old boy.
Why, it's a sabre! I believe I know the sort, heavy and curved, but shorter than the cavalry; they used to have them in artillery and the--
do you--er-- do you generally cut out a new front door whenever you want to go for a walk?
I've really got to cut down this fence somehow; it's spoiling all the plants, and no one else here can do it. But I'll only carve another bit off the front door, and then come out and welcome you.
and now let's go up to the house; you must have some dinner.
here is the legend of the Spaniard plain enough. Here he is holding up his arms and cursing in the sea; and here are the two curses: the wrecked ship and the burning of Pendragon Tower.
And how many other things might it not be?
that it should exactly confirm the old legend.
that there was no thunder and lightning at all in the two or three shipwrecks I know of in our family.
Then you don't think there is anything in the tales of the tower in flames?
they've been camping about here for about a week. Gentlemen, you want your dinner,
But, Admiral, what's that hissing noise quite near the island? It's very like fire.
I'm rather sorry you take this so lightly,
for the truth is, I've brought these friends of mine with the idea of their helping you, as they know a good deal of these things. Don't you really believe in the family story at all?
but, as you see, a very bad wine-bibber. I most sincerely beg your pardon
will you do me a favour? Let me, and my friends if they like, stop in that tower of yours just for tonight? Do you know that in my business you're an exorcist almost before anything else?
There is one thing I know about this matter. You may call me an atheist. I am an atheist.
This business is perfectly natural. There is no curse in it at all.
there can't be any objection to my sleeping in your delightful summer-house.
including spilling the wine. But it seems to me you are not quite so easy about the flaming tower as you try to be.
but wouldn't you be an atheist to keep sane in all this devilry?
If I could find a spud or something I'd do it myself.
as George Herbert says: `Who sweeps an Admiral's garden in Cornwall as for Thy laws makes that and the action fine.' And now,
The red tulips before the yellow, I think. Look a bit dry, don't you think?
Mine does seem to be a rather kill or cure sort of watering,
do you know, I upset some wine at dinner.
that one of the Admiral's scientific predictions is coming true tonight. This story is going to end in smoke.
that the wooden fence that might have carried it was cut away.
when it takes to killing people, it always kills people who are somewhere else.
Knock these fellows down somehow and tie them up, whoever they are; there's rope down by those faggots. They want to take away my nice hose.
As soon as you get a chance, call out to that canoeing girl; she's over on the bank with the gipsies. Ask her if they could get some buckets across and fill them from the river.
He has been washed down to the rocks by now, where he has sent so many others. He knew the use of a family legend.
Can't you put it simply in words of one syllable?
`Both eyes bright, she's all right; one eye blinks, down she sinks.'
is how the father and brother died. The wicked uncle of the legends very nearly got his estate after all.
That's from the fire, but you don't think so because you're all smoking cigars. That's just the way I got my first faint suspicion about the chart.
Do you mean Pendragon's chart of his Pacific Islands?
You thought it was a chart of the Pacific Islands,
I saw the rock you thought was like a dragon, and the one like Merlin, and--
You seem to have noticed a lot as we came in,
I felt simply horrible. But feeling horrible has nothing to do with not seeing things.
Do you think most men would have seen that?
that we are approaching a pleasure resort.
Though it seems odd it should bear me, and you go through the weak place. Let me help you out.
Want to get out? Why, no. I rather think I want to get in.
I have found what was sometimes more important. The Sacrifice.
Will you step inside, gentlemen? I have no staff at present, but I can get you anything simple myself.
I'm afraid we can't wait to trouble your hospitality seriously,
But my friend would be glad of a glass of sherry, I'm sure, to keep out the cold and drink success to the Latin champion.
Excuse me if I detain you a few minutes. As I told you, I have no staff--
I had forgotten my cook. He will be starting presently. Sherry, sir?
that there are so few people about the beach, when this big fight is coming on after all. We only met one man for miles.
Whereabouts did you meet the one man on your march?
at any work of hell. But as I was saying,
It was a very long gold pin, and had the carved head of a monkey or some such thing,
and it was fixed in a rather odd way--he wore pince-nez and a broad black--
I don't know what all this means, but I take it I may trust my own eyes that you never met the man you have so accurately described.
that glass-eyed guy had something to do with it.
and I may have been wrong in what I did. I acted on impulse. But I fear this business has deep roots and dark.
But it rather confirms my view that such pleasure places look awfully lonely out of season, or the man wouldn't have been murdered there.
Not so sure he was murdered out of the season,
I didn't know pugilism was your latest hobby. Are you going to see the fight?
Be careful, you know, about the ropes after the fourth-- Well, and what do you want, I wonder!
I have come to prevent a man being killed.
I'm damned if I'll stand any more of this!
And what do you say to the two thousand people who have come to see it?
I say there will be one thousand nine-hundred and ninety-nine of them left alive when they have seen it,
My lord, it is a matter of life and death,
Ring your bell. Give your message. And see whether it is Malvoli who answers.
I have a serious announcement to make to the audience shortly. Meanwhile, would you kindly tell the two champions that the fight will have to be put off.
What authority have you for what you say?
But, no, I'm wrong; I consulted a book, too. I picked it up on a bookstall in London--very cheap, too.
What this? Huh! Huh! You steal a coloured gentleman's prize-- prize his already--yo' think yo' jes' save that white 'Talian trash--
I will be with you to explain in a minute or two.
I am the organizing secretary, and I advise you just now to leave the room.
And I advise you just now to leave the country.
what do you think of Leonardo da Vinci? A beautiful Italian head.
I've taken a considerable responsibility, on your bare word. I think you ought to tell me more about this.
But if I want to murder somebody, will it really be the best plan to make sure I'm alone with him?
If you want to murder somebody, I should advise it.
I fear the English decline to draw any fine distinction between the moral character produced by my religion and that which blooms out of Voodoo.
and horridly well hidden, too. They must have found him at the ports if he had only whitened his face.
And I'm sure he wouldn't whiten his face.
I thought I had better look in, in case anything was the matter.
but it seemed to have a singular sort of echo.
and so would you in my place. If you were chased everywhere by devils and nearly--
I don't know whether you've met Colonel Cray of the Royal Artillery.
I never heard before that a service revolver was a thing to be sneezed at.
It's lucky you didn't turn your artillery on him or you might have given him quite a bad cold.
Fish-knives and forks gone. Old cruet-stand gone. Even the old silver cream-jug gone. And now, Father Brown, I am ready to answer your question of whether it was a burglar.
I know better than you why people persecute this house; I know better than you why--
It was a burglar. Obviously it was a burglar.
that might assist you to trace him in the neighbourhood.
He must be far beyond trace now, I fear,
that he believes some Indian secret society is pursuing him.
I suppose we'd better follow him outside,
I don't want any more--shall we say, sneezing?
I always told you not to have that old-fashioned cruet-stand.
I'm old-fashioned myself; and the things keep together.
I suppose you think I'm mad, like the rest?
They are all at me here that the fellow was only after the silver--as if I shouldn't be only too pleased to think so! She's been at me,
got any Eastern curios, idols, weapons and so on, from which one might get a hint?
Plenty of those, though not much use, I fear,
a dictionary of drugs and such things. But it's rather too large to take to church.
all these spears and things are from India?
Putnam is an old soldier, and has been in Mexico and Australia, and the Cannibal Islands for all I know.
I hope it was not in the Cannibal Islands,
Your lunch is just coming in. And the bells are ringing for those who want to go to church.
Not in those clothes. Or was he there earlier today?
I'll mix you a salad! I can't eat it, but I'll mix it like an angel! You've got a lettuce there.
Unfortunately it's the only thing we have got,
You must remember that mustard, vinegar, oil and so on vanished with the cruet and the burglar.
That's what I've always been afraid would happen. That's why I always carry a cruet-stand about with me. I'm so fond of salads.
I wonder why the burglar wanted mustard, too,
A mustard plaster, I suppose. And vinegar
haven't I heard something about vinegar and brown paper? As for oil, which I think I put in my left--
I shall come and hear your sermons, if they're as amusing as your manners.
Oh, there are sermons in a cruet-stand, too,
Have you heard of faith like a grain of mustard-seed; or charity that anoints with oil? And as for vinegar, can any soldiers forget that solitary soldier, who, when the sun was darkened--
I suppose the Major was in love with her, too,
You were very generous, doctor. You did a fine thing. But what made you suspect?
And remembered that there were emetics in the cruet-stand,
The Major is a long time looking for the police.
he guessed the sun would rise in the west yet, if American citizens did a bit more hustling.
Darwin Chews Dirt; Critic Boulnois says He Jumps the Shocks
Keep Catastrophic, says Thinker Boulnois.
of directing me to the Grey Cottage, where Mr Boulnois lives, as I understand?
I shall be passing it myself in a minute, but I'm going on to Pendragon Park to try and see the fun.
Sir Claude Champion's place--haven't you come down for that, too?
I'm interested in catastrophes; and there are going to be some,
Mine's a filthy trade, and I never pretend it isn't.
one of the brightest and wealthiest of England's Upper Ten
I don't think it can go on without a smash,
Old Boulnois may be squared--or he may be square. But if he's square he's thick-- what you might call cubic. But I don't believe it's possible.
He is a man of grand intellectual powers,
but even a man of grand intellectual powers can't be such a blighted fool as all that. Must you be going on? I shall be following myself in a minute or two.
Mr Boulnois asked me to offer his apologies, sir,
but he has been obliged to go out suddenly.
Did he go with Mrs--with the rest of the party?
he stayed behind, and then went out alone.
If that's the way he goes on he deserves to lose his wife's purest devotion,
But perhaps he's gone over to make a row. In that case I reckon a man from the Western Sun will be on the spot.
Boulnois.... Boulnois, I say.... Boulnois did it... jealous of me...he was jealous, he was, he was...
Boulnois...with my own sword...he threw it...
you must fetch a doctor. This man's dead.
I was too late to save the man, but I guess I was in time to hear something of importance. I heard the dead man denounce his assassin.
I understood that Mr Boulnois was not coming to Pendragon Park this evening.
I don't think he did it, and you don't either.
At least, one's very trivial and the other very vague. But such as they are, they don't fit in with Mr Boulnois being the murderer.
whom it is easier to kill with a dagger than a sword.
Am I right, then? Did Sir Claude kill himself?
he ever cared about me a rap. He hated my husband.
He hated my husband because...it is so strange I hardly know how to say it...because...
of all the things wherein the king had honoured him; and he said: `All these things profit me nothing while I see Mordecai the Jew sitting in the gate.'
All the servants were out of the house, seeing the theatricals. And we don't keep a butler, thank goodness!
Look here--I say--can I make your husband hear if I go to the house?
Better get hold of that Yankee, or `Crime of John Boulnois' will be all over the Republic in large letters.
He wouldn't mind. I don't think he imagines that America really is a place.
He has been here for half an hour at least,
I shan't interrupt you a moment. I fear I break in on some of your scientific studies.
I won't keep you long from `The Bloody Thumb' or any other catastrophic affairs,
I only came to ask you about the crime you committed this evening.
but one often has to choose between feeling a damned fool and being one.
but only perjury. I said I had gone across to Pendragon Park and shut the door in his face. That is my crime, Father Brown, and I don't know what penance you would inflict for it.
quite the contrary. I came here specially to let you off the little penance which would otherwise have followed your little offence.
is the little penance I have so luckily been let off?
In this place they not only fight with swords, but kill without swords. And there's worse than that.
I should say this was the only place in Europe where a man was ever shot without firearms.
Perhaps you know as much about it as I do. Anyhow, that's the story of the Arnholds, and he was the last survivor of them. Yes, and of all the men who played parts in that drama.
You mean that the Prince, too, died long before?
Human science can never be quite certain of things like that,
Which could be quite certain of discovering a toy pistol,
But what about the brother who ratted? Hadn't he anything to tell the Prince?
He always asseverated that he did not know,
Some girl attached to the Court named Hedwig von something or other,
who had been out in the wood picking wild flowers.
That's exactly what old Grimm said. He said the ugliest part of it, he thought--uglier than the blood and bullet--was that the flowers were quite short, plucked close under the head.
when a grown up girl is really picking flowers, she picks them with plenty of stalk. If she just pulled their heads off, as a child does, it looks as if--
Well, it looks rather as if she had snatched them nervously, to make an excuse for being there after--well, after she was there.
but there was another bullet-hole in the sash.
Don't think me rude. Let me think this out for a moment.
Well, well, what a queer story! What a queer way of killing a man; but I suppose it was the only one possible. But to think of hate so patient--
Yes, yes, I know about the bullet. Perhaps I ought to say he died of having a sash. I know it doesn't sound like having a disease.
that you've got some notion in your head, but it won't easily get the bullet out of his. As I explained before, he might easily have been strangled. But he was shot. By whom? By what?
I haven't got any theories. Only this place reminds me of fairy stories, and, if you like, I'll tell you a story.
I'm going to have another look at that portrait of the Chamberlain, the Arnhold who betrayed his brethren,
I wonder what part--I wonder if a man is less a traitor when he is twice a traitor?
No need to stop the wheel, Mary, dear, for me,
I was not asleep; nor is it THAT which keeps me from sleep. But don't overwork yourself, Mary.
The fine weather will never come again to me,
Bless you, dears; bless you; love and help one another all you can. Good night!-- good-bye!
we can do no less than give a helping hand to the poor orphans, that are so ready to help themselves.
O, mother! mother! are you gone for ever?
There was no answer, please your honour,
that I have driven the poor thing away from that place; I was always afraid she would shake that great ugly stone down upon her at last.
Here are more, a great many more of them,
Oh, Mary! Mary! this is come to us just in right time--now you can pay for the slated house. Never was anything so lucky!
St. Patrick's days should come about, There would be found A treasure under ground, By one within twenty miles round.
Ah, Mary, honey! give me a potato and a sup of something, for the love o' mercy; for not a bit have I had all day, except half a glass of whisky and a halfpenny worth of tobacco!
Well, and what have you done with the treasure you had the luck to find?
That's not what I would have done in your place,
BARRING you'll make it worth my while to let it alone.
And what will make it worth your while to let it alone?
I am sure the finding of this treasure has not been any good luck to us, but quite the contrary; and I wish we never had found it.
He is a bad man--I'll never go to him again. Mary, don't be cast down--we have no need to be cast down--we are honest.
but is not it a hard case that we, who have lived, as my mother did all her life before us, in peace and honesty with all the world, should now have our good name taken from us, when--
poor orphans though we are, and he a rich gentleman, as he calls himself. Let him say and do what he will, he can't hurt our good name.
Ho! ho! mistress; I'd not have had any dealings with you, had I known your name sooner. Where's the gold that you found at Rossmore Castle?
but waken Anne and Peggy. Here's a letter just come by post for you, and I stepped over to you with it; because I guessed you'd be glad to have it, seeing it is your brother's handwriting.
That is the very reason that you have not a halfpenny,
don't be prating; don't I know as well as you do, that they found a pot of gold, BY GOOD LUCK? and is not that the cause why they are going to live in a slated house now?
It will go near to break my Jem's heart,
Ay! no wonder, you've been brave hard at work--Eh?
God bless the boy! how he talks!--Four mile there, and four mile back again, afore breakfast.
Ay, upon Lightfoot, you know, mother, very easily; mayn't I?
and now for the great needle; I must see and mend Lightfoot's bridle afore I go to bed.
What, Lightfoot! Oh, la, no, not he--never was so well of his lameness in all his life. He's grown quite young again, I think, and then he's so fat he can hardly wag.
God bless him--that's right. We must see, Jem, and keep him fat.
For Monday fortnight at the fair. He's to be--sold!
MUST! who says you MUST? why MUST you, mother?
Two guineas, that's a great, great deal. If I worked, and worked, and worked ever so hard, I could no ways earn two guineas AFORE Monday fortnight--could I, mother?
Lord help thee, no; not an' work thyself to death.
But I could earn something, though, I say,
and I WILL earn SOMETHING--if it be ever so little, it will be SOMETHING--and I shall do my very best; so I will.
you were always a good, industrious lad, THAT I will say afore your face or behind your back;--but it won't do now--Lightfoot MUST go.
it will be SOMETHING; and who knows but landlord might then wait a bit longer? and we might make it all up in time; for a penny a day might come to two guineas in time.
you can; I've just dropped, amongst this heap of rubbish, a fine piece of crystal that I got to-day.
it's gone for ever; don't trouble yourself any more, my boy.
It's no trouble; I'll look a little longer; we'll not give it up so soon,
you are a fine little industrious fellow.
we are going to dinner just now, and shall leave off work--wait for me here, and I'll make it worth your while.
I don't know--because I can't find anybody to play with me to-day. Will you come and play?
you are always busy. I would not be you for the world, to have so much to do always.
would not be you for the world, to have nothing to do.
so there is little danger of your getting into any mischief.
bear a hand here, will you, my little fellow, and carry these parcels for us into yonder house?
She will very likely buy your stones into the bargain. Come along, my lad; we can but try.
Where is the little boy you brought with you? I thought I saw him here just now.
I had better be doing something than standing idle, ma'am.
I never sold any yet, and if you don't buy 'em now, ma'am, I'm afraid nobody else will; for I've asked everybody else.
if that is the case, I think I had better buy them all.
I will be sure and bring you as many more, to-morrow.
But, perhaps, though you don't promise it, you will.
do not deceive yourself; I assure you that I will not. THAT, instead of encouraging you to be industrious, would teach you to be idle.
I'm sure I don't wish to be idle; what I want is to earn something every day, if I know how; I'm sure I don't wish to be idle. If you knew all, you'd know I did not.
Why, I mean, if you knew about Lightfoot.
I must make haste home, and feed him afore it gets dark; he'll wonder what's gone with me.
you know there is a great deal of difference between picking up a few stones, and working steadily every day, and all day long.
I would work every day, and all day long.
I will give you work. Come here, to-morrow morning, and my gardener will set you to weed the shrubberies, and I will pay you sixpence a day. Remember, you must be at the gates by six o'clock.
Look what I got for the stones; you are to have half, you know.
There, he shall have that into the bargain for his honesty--honesty is the best policy-- there's a lucky penny for you, that I've kept ever since I can remember.
Don't you ever go to part with it, do ye hear!
another penny would do just as well to buy gingerbread; and that's what it will go for.
Never had so good a little boy about the grounds,
show me how much is a fair day's work for a boy of his age.
Come at six o'clock and go at six? why, about this much, ma'am,
so much shall be your task every day. The gardener will mark it off for you; and when you've done, the rest of the day you may do what you please.
I don't know well what tires me; grandmother says I'm ill, and I must take something--I don't know what ails me.
Oh, pugh! take a good race--one, two, three, and away--and you'll find yourself as well as ever. Come, run--one, two, three, and away.
you know I can play all day long if I like it, so I don't mind play as you do, who have only one hour for it.
So much the worse for you. Come, now, I'm quite fresh again, will you have one game at ball? do.
No, I tell you I can't; I'm as tired as if I had been working all day long as hard as a horse.
for I have been working all day long, as hard as a horse, and yet you see I'm not a bit tired, only a little out of breath just now.
for you don't seem happy, and you HAVE EIGHTPENCE.
four and sevenpence, have you? Show it me, and then I'll believe you.
and I'll soon make you believe me; come.
Honestly! to be sure I did; I earned it all.
you'll give me some of your good things, won't you?
I shall not have any of those good things,
Then, what will you do with all your money?
Oh, I know very well what to do with it; but, as I told you, that's a secret, and I sha'n't tell it anybody. Come now, let's go back and play- -their game's up, I daresay.
you lazy dog! See what you've done for me--look!--look, look, I say!
Now, did not I order you three days ago to carry these bottles to the cellar, and did not I charge you to wire the corks? answer me, you lazy rascal; did not I?
What do you stand there for, you lazy brat? why don't you move, I say? No, no,
I believe you can't move; but I'll make you.
I will not give you a halfpenny, no, not a farthing, for a month to come. If you want money, go work for it; I've had enough of your laziness--go work!
If _I_ begin with one halfpenny I may end, like him, with having twopence; and it is easier to play at pitch farthing than to work.
to play at pitch farthing; the next time I want a halfpenny I'll not ask my father for it, nor go to work neither.
you are making here--why don't you wipe your shoes upon the mat?
nor I don't know when, if ever, the man will bring home those mats you bespoke, ma'am.
I wish we could find somebody who would do them, if he can't. I should not care what sort of mats they were, so that one could wipe one's feet on them.
Oh! there is my little boy and his mats,
what do you see that makes you look so surprised?
well, take up your hat and go home then, for you see that it is getting late, and you know Lightfoot will wonder what's become of you.
five and sevenpence I think you told me you had earned already--how much does that make? I must add, I believe, one other sixpence to make out your two guineas.
will YOU thank 'em, for you know I don't know how to thank 'em RIGHTLY.
I have one thing to ask you, that I may be by when you show your treasure to your mother.
but I will come to Ashton to-morrow evening; perhaps your mother can find me a few strawberries.
Lightfoot, you're not to be sold on Monday, poor fellow!
whether you will go with us to the cock-fight on Monday? See, I've a fine cock here, and Lawrence told me you were a great friend of his; so I came.
Shall you like to stand by and see its eyes pecked out?
as to that; but they say a cockfight's a fine sight, and it's no more cruel in me to go than another; and a great many go, and I've nothing else to do, so I shall go.
you know Monday is the great Bristol fair, and one must be merry then, of all the days in the year.
One day in the year, sure, there's no harm in being merry,
for I know for my part, I am merry every day in the year.
but I know for my part, I would not for all the world miss going to the fair, for at least it will be something to talk of for half a year after. Come, you'll go, won't you?
Then what will you do with all your money?
and don't you go to see that cock's eyes pecked out; it won't make you merry, I'm sure.
you might have known he would not go, else we should soon have trimmed him out of his four and sevenpence. But how came you to talk of four and sevenpence. I saw in the manger a hat full of silver.
Yes, indeed; but why did you stammer so when we first got in? You had liked to have blown us all up.
Ashamed! but you must not talk of shame now you are in for it, and I sha'n't let you off; you owe us half a crown, recollect, and I must be paid to-night, so see and get the money somehow or other.
I answer for it he'd never miss half a crown out of all that silver.
I never thought I should come to that--and from poor Jem, too--the money that he has worked so hard for, too.
Have you found it? Take care of the horse. Have you done? What are you about? Make haste, I hear a noise,
I am feeling for the half-crown, but I can't find it.
you won't take all. You said you'd only take half a crown, and pay it back on Monday. You said you'd only take half a crown!
if ever I am to be hanged, it sha'n't be for half a crown.
you look white enough now, if that will please you, for you're turned as pale as death.
I hope it's our milk-woman with cream for the lady.
You'd best sit down, if the lady will give you leave; for he'll not hurry himself back again. My boy's a fool, madam, about that there horse.
I knew how Lightfoot and he would be loath enough to part. He won't bring him out till the last minute; so do sit ye down, neighbour.
My two guineas--Lightfoot's two guineas. I went to fetch 'em to give you, mammy; but the broken flower-pot that I put them in, and all's gone!--quite gone!
How came you to leave all your money in a broken flower-pot in the stable? How came you not to give it to your mother to take care of?
why, don't you remember you, your own self, bid me not tell her about it till you were by?
Oh, Jem! Jem! why don't you speak to the lady?
I think I have seen your face before, but I forget.
that you forget who gave you this, and who charged you not to part with it, too.
oh, where did you find it? and have you--oh, tell me, have you got the rest of my money?
I know nothing of your money--I don't know what you would be at,
But where--pray tell me where--did you find this?
With them that you gave it to, I suppose,
I came by it in an odd way, too. You must know my Betty is sick, so I came with the milk myself, though it's not what I'm used to; for my Betty--you know my Betty?
my Betty serves you, and she's a tight and stirring lassy, ma'am, I can assure--
Why, that's true; as I was coming along all alone, for the rest came round, and I came a short cut across yon field--no, you can't see it, madam, where you stand--but if you were here--
and I charged him not to part with it; and, ma'am, when I looked I knew it by the mark, so I thought I would show it to HE,
and let him give it back to those it belongs to.
those boys have robbed him; it is they who have all his money.
do you take the road, and I'll take the field way, and I'll be bound we'll have 'em presently.
it must be--yet surely it can't be Lawrence!
I WILL--I tell you I WILL see the thief!
what could put such wickedness in your head?
And how came you--what brought you into bad company?
Thank God! he is not my son. How often when he was little we used, as he lounged about, to tell him that idleness was the root of all evil.
let him go--won't you?--can't you let him go?
think what a disgrace to his family to be sent to gaol.
it's better he should go to Bridewell now, than to the gallows by-and-by.
You are now going to leave me, and to begin the world for yourself. You will carry this letter to my sister, Mrs. Churchill, in Queen's Square. You know Queen's Square?
And you will always--I mean, as long as you deserve it--find a friend in me.
I hope you will let me see you again, sir, sometimes.
I have a letter for Mrs. Churchill, sir,
to my housekeeper, and I hope she will have no reason to be displeased with you.
Pomfret, I hope you will keep this boy under your own eye.
Ma'am, is not this the boy Mr. Spencer was talking of one day--that has been brought up by the VILLAINTROPIC SOCIETY, I think they call it?
and my brother gives him a high character: I hope he will do very well.
But they are not suffered to be with their parents,
and therefore cannot be hurt by their example. This little boy, to be sure, was unfortunate in his father, but he has had an excellent education.
Pomfret, I thought you had better sense: how would this poor boy earn his bread? he would be forced to starve or steal, if everybody had such prejudices.
God forbid he should starve or steal, and God forbid I should say anything PREJUDICIARY of the boy; for there may be no harm in him.
but, Pomfret, if we don't like the boy at the end of the month, we have done with him; for I have only promised Mr. Spencer to keep him a month upon trial: there is no harm done.
Dear, no, ma'am, to be sure; and cook must put up with her disappointment, that's all.
About her nephew, ma'am; the boy she and I was speaking to you for.
But I did not promise to take her nephew.
O, no ma'am, not at all; she does not think to SAY THAT, else I should be very angry; but the poor woman never let fall a word, any more than frets that the boy should miss such a good place.
when mistress asked for me, how came you to say I was gone out?
And when she asked you where I was gone, how came you to say that you did not know?
You are a stupid blockhead! could you not say I was gone to the washerwoman's?
Did not I see something like a piece of beef in a basket in the dairy?--I think--
there's malice for you. Ask him why he don't show you the beef in the basket.
Call at the bookseller's in--stay, I must write down the direction. Pomfret,
Poor fellow--poor fellow--down! down! poor fellow!
You will see by this direction where you are to go,
Manchon, come here--and you will be so good as to bring me--down! down! Manchon, be quiet!
I am ready to hear all you have to say. In my house everybody shall have justice; speak-- but what?
That as long as he had paid like a gentleman, he had been treated like one, and that was as much as anyone could expect, or, at any rate, as much as anyone would meet with in this world.
Don't you tell Mrs. Pomfret where you found the candle when you came into the room,
If she asks me, you know I must tell the truth,
But if I were to give you something that you would like,
so it is useless to say any more about it--I hope I shall not be questioned.
How did this candlestick come here? This was not the candlestick you found here last night,
for I left this candlestick with my own hands last night, in the hall, the last thing I did, after you,
I do not forget; I'm not come to be SUPPERANNUATED yet, I hope. How do you dare to tell me I forget?
I beg your pardon, I did not--I did not mean to say you forgot, but only I thought, perhaps, you might not particularly remember; for if you please to recollect--
I won't please to recollect just whatever you please, sir! Hold your tongue; why should you poke yourself into this scrape; what have you to do with it, I should be glad to know?
Nothing in the world, oh nothing in the world; I'm sure I beg your pardon, ma'am,
How do you find yourself this morning, ma'am?
I think I must sleep half an hour longer--shut the curtains.
As you please, ma'am; but I suppose I had better open a little of the window shutter, for it's past nine.
Oh dear, ma'am, it struck before I came upstairs, and you know we are twenty minutes slow--Lord bless us!
I'm sure I beg your pardon a thousand times--it's only the bar--because I had this great key in my hand.
Put down the key, then, or you'll knock something else down; and you may open the shutters now; for I'm quite awake.
Dear me! I'm so sorry to think of disturbing you,
To be sure, ma'am--how can I help believing him? I never found him out in the least symptom of a lie since ever he came into the house; so one can't help believing in him, like him or not.
Without meaning to tell a falsehood, however,
Take care that you don't go from one extreme into another, Pomfret; don't spoil the boy.
No, ma'am, there's no danger of that; but I'm sure if you had seen him last night yourself, you would think he deserved to be rewarded.
There's no occasion, I think, for trying him any more, ma'am,
that he will bring up breakfast this morning; and leave the key of the house-door, Pomfret, with me.
That is but a short time; yet you have conducted yourself so as to make me think I may depend upon you. You know this key?
I believe, madam, it is the key of the house-door.
It is; I shall trust it in your care. It is a great trust for so young a person as you are.
I will, madam, do anything you order me,
Lord, you know nothing of all this! YOU never went to a play, did you?
How should you like to go to the play with me to-morrow?
And do you think mistress would let you if I asked?
I think maybe she would, if Mrs. Pomfret asked her.
what I am thinking of is, that if mistress will let you go, I'll treat you myself, rather than that you should he disappointed.
Well then, I'll go just now and ask her. In the meantime, lend me the key of the house door for a minute or two.
I'm sorry, but I can't do that, for I've promised my mistress never to let it out of my own hands.
But how will she know anything of the matter? Run, run, and get it for us.
then, sir, I can't take you to the play.
you need not look so important, nor fancy yourself such a great man, because you're master of a key.
let him alone to take his own way. Felix, you would have no objection, I suppose, to going to the play with me?
Oh, I should like it of all things, if I did not come between anybody else. But come, come!
Then it must be all because you don't wish to oblige Mr. Corkscrew.
I am glad to find you out to be an honest fellow!
I am sorry you did not think me an honest fellow before, Mr. Corkscrew,
But we'll have the key from him in spite of all his obstinacy,
give him but a halfpenny worth of wax, and he could open the strongest lock that ever was made by hands.
I was not mistaken when I thought I might trust YOU with this key,
My brother will be here to-day, and I shall consult him. In the meantime, say nothing of what has passed.
I'm glad to find you are in such high TRUST in this family.
But you have lost, I understand, the pleasure of going to the play to-night.
I don't think anything--much, I mean, of that, sir,
Are Corkscrew and Felix GONE to the play?
Then I shall look into his room, and examine the pantry and the plate that is under his care.
Nay, sir, but I won't pretend to sleep in the house, if Franklin isn't to have a blunderbuss, and I a BAGGONET.
You shall have both, indeed, Mrs. Pomfret; but don't make such a noise, for everybody will hear you.
Since we've got the key, we'll go about it to-night.
And did my brother tell him what reward I intend for him?
No, ma'am, and I'm sure Franklin thinks no more of REWARD than I do.
to sell some of my old useless plate, and to lay it out in an annuity for Franklin's life.
I'm sure you are very good; and I'm very glad of it.
here are some tickets for the play, which I shall beg you, Pomfret, to give him, and to take him with you.
I am very much obliged to you, indeed, ma'am; and I'll go with him with all my heart, and choose such plays as won't do no prejudice to his morality. And, ma'am,
I wish Susan would come! I want her to sing me this same tune over again; I have not it yet.
Nothing can be done without Susan! She always shows us where the nicest flowers are to be found in the lanes and meadows,
She must make up the garlands; and she shall be Queen of the May!
that she would answer for it Susan would come as soon as she possibly could, and that she probably was detained by business at home.
I shall eat nothing, child! Why have you such a fire to roast me at this time of the year?
You said yesterday, father, I thought, that you liked a little cheerful wood fire in the evening; and there was a great shower of hail; your coat is quite wet, we must dry it.
I shall soon have no coat to dry--and take my hat, too,
Oh, my guinea-hen! my pretty guinea-hen!
Now pay damages, Queen Susan, or good-bye to your pretty guinea-hen,
I have but sixpence of my own in the world, and here it is.
let me at least come in to look for its eggs. I only want ONE for my father's supper; you shall have all the rest.
What's your father, or his supper to us? is he so nice that he can eat none but guinea-hen's eggs?
If you want your hen and your eggs, pay for them, and you'll have them.
I have but sixpence, and you say that won't do,
They are all at the hawthorn, and I am come for you. We can do nothing without YOU, dear Susan,
You are chosen Queen of the May--come, make haste. But what is the matter? why do you look so sad?
don't wait for me; I can't come to you, but,
But don't turn away your face; I won't keep you a moment; only tell me what's the matter,
Barbara! ay; like father, like daughter,
You see something is amiss with me, wife--I'll tell you what it is.
Susan, don't go; sit you down here, my sweet Susan,
As how, man! Why, you said something about its not belonging to me, when you heard me talk of inclosing it the other day.
not a guinea of it; but John Simpson, who was my substitute, has not left our village yet. I'll get the money back from him, and go myself, if so be it must be so, into the militia--so I will.
You don't mean to take the corner into your own garden, do you, Price?
God forbid! it's none of mine, I never take what does not belong to me.
but then you have no interest in life in the land in question?
Then why so stiff about it, Price? All I want of you to say--
And law is law, Mr. Farmer, and shall have its course, to your cost,
There, Mr. Attorney, are your nine guineas; count them; now I have done with you.
We'll give you a taste of the law, my good sir, or I'm mistaken. You forgot the flaw in your lease, which I have safe in this desk.
Give me my lease, Mr. Case. I've paid my money; you have no right to keep the lease any longer, whether it is a bad one or a good one.
my mother is ill; I can't leave her, you know.
good-bye. We sha'n't hear your voices or the pipe when you have turned the corner into the village; so you need only stop till then, Philip.
Good-bye, poor Susan. It is a pity you can't come with us,
for the double cowslips; look how pretty they are, and smell how sweet the violets are in my bosom, and kiss me quick, for I shall be left behind.
How grateful that child is to me, for a cowslip only! How can I be grateful enough to such a mother as this?
She taught me to knit, she taught me everything that I know,
and the best of all, she taught me to love her, to wish to be like her.
But he'll want, he'll want a hundred things,
I must get his linen ready for him. I'm afraid it's very late. Susan, why did you let me lie so long?
Everything shall be ready, dear mother; only don't hurry yourself,
How does your mother do, in the first place?
That's well, and I have a little bit of good news for you besides-- here,
Dear, how you STARTLED me! Is it only you?
Could not ye say I was not at home, Betty? Well, my good girl, what brings you here? Something to borrow or beg, I suppose.
I believe that this is a very good shilling,
If you don't like it, I will change it, and now you will be so good as to give me Susan's guinea-hen. It is in her name I ask for it.
Whatever it costs us, we are determined to have Susan's favourite hen; so, if one shilling won't do, take two; and if two won't do, why, take three.
Have you no conscience, Miss Barbara? Then take four.
Certainly I DO long to see my pretty guinea-hen once more; but I was not thinking of her just then--I was thinking of my father.
This, to be sure, will go but a little way,
but still it may be of some use to my father.
if the money was given to her to dispose of as she pleased, she would give it to her father.
if you have any more mending work to do--I never liked work till I worked with you. I won't forget my thimble or my scissors,
though I used to forget them when I was a giddy girl. I assure you I am a great hand at my needle, now--try me.
She is the most industrious little creature, ma'am, in the world,
You have really said enough to excite my curiosity,
pray send for her immediately; we can see her before we go out to walk.
There she is, I declare, just come into her garden,
I'll run in and get it all out of her in a minute.
My mother is rather better to-day, she says, ma'am--thank you,
MA'AM! dear, how polite we are grown of a sudden!
One may see you've been in good company this morning--hey, Susan? Come, let's hear about it.
Did you see the ladies themselves, or was it only the housekeeper sent for you?
La! she saw Miss Somers! Betty, I must hear about it. Can't you stop gathering those things for a minute, and chat a bit with us, Susan?
I can't stay, indeed, Miss Barbara; for my mother's broth is just wanted, and I'm in a hurry.
Dear, how savoury it smells! I'll wait till you go in with it to your mother; for I must ask her how she does myself.
I have but just put the parsley into the broth; but it soon will be ready.
that she would come here at six o'clock.
but what else did she mean, think you? People, you know, don't always mean exactly, downright, neither more nor less than what they say.
oh, then I suppose you have some guess at what Miss Somers meant.
I was not thinking about Miss Somers, when I said not always.
The next time I taste your broth you shall affront me, if you dare! The next time I set my foot in this house, you shall be as saucy to me as you please.
TAKE A SPOON, PIG, was what you meant to say.
to enjoy that kind of domestic life in the country which I prefer to all others, and amongst people whose happiness I hope to increase.
it will not be out of lease, I believe, these ten years. I'll look into the rent roll again; perhaps I am mistaken.
You are mistaken, my good sir, and you are not mistaken,
Sure! As I told you before, sir, I'd pledge my whole credit upon the thing--I'd stake my existence.
you have no scruple of stirring in this business?
There's only one thing we have forgotten all this time,
I will not trouble you, Sir Arthur, with this lease of Price's,
I'll leave it with your agent. Whom shall I apply to?
Susan Price has a pet lamb that's as fat as fat could be.
It can't be helped--how do you know that?
What would you give now to have your father at home for a whole week longer?
What good can any lamb do? Is not lamb good to eat? Why do you look so pale, girl? Are not sheep killed every day, and don't you eat mutton? Is your lamb better than anybody else's, think you?
It feeds out of hand, it follows me about; I have always taken care of it; my mother gave it to me.
if you love your lamb better than both your father and your mother, keep it, and good morning to you.
a whole week, did you say? My mother may get better in that time. No, I do not love my lamb half so well.
Grazing in the meadow, by the river side.
It must be brought up before night-fall for the butcher, remember.
Are you there, love? Undraw the curtain, that I may see you, and tell me;--I thought I heard some strange voice just now talking to my child. Something's amiss, Susan,
Would you think it amiss, then, my dear mother,
would you think it amiss, if my father was to stay with us a week longer?
He is, indeed, a whole week;--but how burning hot your hand is still.
How do you know? Who told you so? Tell me all quick.
Attorney Case told me so; he can get him a week's longer leave of absence, and he has promised he will.
God bless him for it, for ever and ever!
I had better get all my business finished,
before I go down to the meadow to take leave of my poor lamb.
How can ye be so careless, child? What is your head running upon? Here, look at the bill you were sending up to the Abbey? I met the messenger, and luckily asked to see how much it was. Look at it.
Sir Arthur Somers, to John Price, debtor, six dozen LAMBS, so much.
Some of them are wrong, and I've written them out again,
Some of them! All of them, I think, seem to be wrong, if I can read,
How delighted he will be when he hears the good news!
but I know he will be a little sorry too for my poor lamb.
He looks very poor,--what a ragged coat he wears!
He must be very old, for all his hair is white; and he must have travelled a great way, for his shoes are quite worn out,
and cannot see your faces; but I know you all asunder by your voices, and I can guess pretty well at all your humours and characters by your voices.
Then you heard MY sister Susan speak just now. Can you tell us what sort of person she is?
That I can, I think, without being a conjurer,
And very fond of the little boy who sits upon my knee.
But how came you to know so much, when you are blind?
you should not put him in mind of his being blind.
I can hear, you know, and I heard from your sister herself all that I told you of her, that she was good- tempered and good-natured and fond of you.
Oh, that's wrong--you did not hear all that from herself, I'm sure,
for nobody ever hears her praising herself.
it's all true; but how did you find out that she was fond of me?
What's going on here? Who are you, my old fellow? A blind harper! Well, play us a tune, if you can play ever a good one--play me-- let's see, what shall he play, Bob?
look at it yourself; the edges are all yellow! you can see the copper through it quite plain. Sir, nobody will take it from us.
You may pass it, you know, as well as I do, if you look sharp. You have taken it from me, and I shan't take it back again, I promise you.
Is anyone here amongst yourselves a judge of silver?
that, as far as his judgment went, but he did not pretend to be a downright CERTAIN SURE of it, the shilling was not over and above good.
But here's Susan here, who understands silver a great deal better than I do; she takes a power of it for bread, you know.
if she says the shilling is good, keep it, Jack.
I think that this shilling is a bad one,
I have sixpences and shillings too in plenty, thank my stars.
There is the high road straight before you,
Miss Somers, I am afraid, will be waiting for us,
You know she said she would call at six; and by the length of our shadows I'm sure it is late.
Come in, Susan; we thought you had quite forsaken us,
Yes, ma'am, it is MY sister Susan that keeps everything neat; and she always comes to school for us, too, which was what caused her to be so late.
she was loth to refuse us the hearing a blind man play on the harp. It was we kept her, and we hopes, ma'am, as you ARE--as you SEEM so good, you won't take it amiss.
I fancy we shall find what we want here,
you set an example of industry and good conduct, of which we wish to take public notice, for the benefit of others.
we shall have a new assortment of calicoes for the spring season, soon from town.
these are all pretty, and too good for me, but--
Tell us what is passing in your little mind.
Well then, we will not press you, you are scarcely acquainted with us yet; when you are, you will not be afraid, I hope, to speak your mind. Put this shining yellow counter,
in your pocket, and make what use of it you please. From what we know, and from what we have heard of you, we are persuaded that you will make a good use of it.
I could give a pretty good guess myself what will become of that guinea; but I say nothing.
we leave Susan entirely at liberty; and now we will not detain her any longer. Good night, Susan, we shall soon come again to your neat cottage.
I would tell you, and welcome, what I want to do with the guinea; but I am not used to speak before so many people. When you come to our cottage again you shall know all.
You have had a great deal of trouble with us, sir,
and since Susan will not choose a gown for herself, I must.
No later back, ma'am, than last May morning,
and, as soon as you receive your new things from town, let us know. You will, I hope, find us good customers and well-wishers,
for those who wish well to their neighbours surely deserve to have well-wishers themselves.
It is not your sister's lamb any longer; it's mine--mine to all intents and purposes.
butcher, you'll account with me. If it's fat--the sooner the better. I've no more to say.
Come, lads, don't keep a crowd and a scandal about my door,
turn the lamb in here, John, in the paddock, for to-night, and go your ways home.
Seeing that all you want is a good, fat, tender lamb, for a present for Sir Arthur, as you told me,
I could let you have what's as good or better for your purpose.
Better--if it's better, I'm ready to hear reason.
I have found my way to you. The neighbours were kind enough to show me whereabouts you lived; for, though I didn't know your name, they guessed who I meant by what I said of you all.
Many roofs that are twice as high are not half so good,
Father, we've good news for you! good news for us all!--You have a whole week longer to stay with us; and perhaps,
How did you come by all this money, Susan?
Honestly and handsomely, that I'm sure of beforehand,
but how I can't make out, except by the baking. Hey, Susan is this your first baking?
here's a beautiful guinea-hen just come, with Miss Barbara Case's compliments to you.
would be to ask Miss Case herself about it, which I will do this evening.
If we were to accept a lamb from a rich neighbour on my estate,
I am afraid we should mortify many of our poor tenants, who can have little to offer, though, perhaps, they may bear us thorough good-will notwithstanding.
I know so much about it,-- about the ball I mean,
because a lady in Shrewsbury, a friend of papa's, offered to take me with her; but papa did not like to give her the trouble of sending so far for me, though she has a coach of her own.
it is mine, and I have made a present of it to Miss Somers.
I'm sure I wish this pitiful guinea-hen had never come into my possession. I wish Susan had kept it at home, as she should have done!
Perhaps she will be more careful now that she has received so strong a lesson,
Philip will, I daresay, take the guinea-hen back to Susan, if we desire it.
Let me come with you--let me come with you,
Stop one minute! my father has something to say to you.
I did not shed one tear when I parted with you, my dear little Daisy!
It was for my father and mother. I would not have parted with you for anything else in the whole world. Thank you, thank you all,
Now, if my father was not to go away from us next week, and if my mother was quite stout, I should be the happiest person in the world!
Let us pass, if you please; you have no right to stop up the public road!
I hope, whilst I live, I shall never forget your goodness to me last May day. Now I've my pretty guinea-hen safe once more, I should think of returning your money.
We don't want the money--keep it, keep it--you want it for your father.
I am not too proud to be obliged. I WILL keep your money for my father. Perhaps some time or other I may be able to earn--
my naughty guinea-hen, that flew away from me, you shall never serve me so again. I must cut your nice wings; but I won't hurt you.
you'd better, indeed you'd better let me hold her whilst you cut her wings.
I'll hold the jug--you'll be late with your message to your mother; we'll not detain you any longer.
you hear how things have turned out; but if Miss Somers won't think of asking me to go out with her, I've a notion I know who will. As papa says, it's a good thing to have two strings to one's bow.
The officers and Mrs. Strathspey, or, more properly, Mrs. Strathspey and the officers, are to breakfast here, tomorrow, do you know,
I'm afraid Mrs. Strathspey will be likely to go without her breakfast here; for not a spoonful of honey have we, let her long for it ever so much.
we can contrive to get some honey in the neighbourhood.
There's none to be bought, as I know of,
But is there none to be begged or borrowed?
Do you forget Susan's beehive? Step over to her in the morning with MY COMPLIMENTS, and see what you can do. Tell her it's for Mrs. Strathspey.
I'll go myself and speak to her. Come with me, Betty,
I must beg a little more honey from you for Mrs. Strathspey's breakfast. You know, on a particular occasion such as this, neighbours must help one another.
the honey I WILL have, so you may as well give it to me by fair means. Yes or no! Speak! Will you give it me or not? Will you give me that piece of the honey-comb that lies there?
That bit of honey-comb is for my mother's breakfast,
If you stand quietly you won't be stung, perhaps.
this was quite wrong of you to go and get yourself into such a scrape. I shall be turned away for it, you'll see.
I don't care whether you are turned away or not,
No, that you can't expect to do, indeed,
You need not think of balls; for those lumps and swellings won't go off your face this week. That's not what pains me; but I'm thinking of what your papa will say to me when he sees you, miss.
Is there anything in our house can be of service to her?
Barbara, Barbara--Bab! come downstairs, child, and speak to Susan Price.
Susan was a great deal too good to her; as you are, indeed,
to everybody. I forgive her for your sake.
A penny, if you please--here's a letter for your father.
here's the penny then, but who can it be from, I wonder? Who can think of writing to me, in this world?
It's a song, seemingly; it must be somebody that has a mind to make an April fool of me.
Well, let us read the letter, and we shall come to the truth all in good time.
let me do my own business, which I had like to have forgotten. Mr. Price, will you come out with me, and let me show you a piece of your land, through which I want to make a road. Look there,
I am laying out a ride round my estate, and that bit of land of yours stops me.
the land's mine, to be sure, for that matter; but I hope you don't look upon me to be that sort of person that would be stiff about a trifle or so.
I had heard you were a litigious, pig- headed fellow; but you do not seem to deserve this character.
I hear something, Mr. Price, of a FLAW in your lease. I would not speak to you about it whilst we were bargaining about your land, lest I should over- awe you; but, tell me, what is this flaw?
In truth, and the truth is the fittest thing to be spoken at all times,
This attorney, whom you speak of so often,
you seem to have some quarrel with. Now, would you tell me frankly what is the matter between--?
don't let us talk any more about it. Let it belong to whom it will, I give it up to you.
So great a lawyer, Mr. Case, as you are,
Very possibly. I daresay you are quite correct; you must know best,
Mr. Price, you will observe that I now promise this little green to the children for a play-ground; and I hope they may gather hawthorn many a May day at this their favourite bush.
I thought it my duty to do so; not out of any malice or ill-will to this good man.
that I should suggest the taking an UNFAIR advantage of any man, rich or poor; but to break a bad lease is not taking an unfair advantage.
Here it is. You will observe that it is neither signed nor sealed by the grantor.
But, you won't take advantage of me, surely, Sir Arthur?
You are a scholar; you write a good hand; you can keep accounts, cannot you?
I think I saw a bill of your little daughter's drawing out the other day, which was very neatly written. Did you teach her to write?
I can't say I did THAT; for she mostly taught it herself, but I taught her a little arithmetic, as far as I knew, on our winter nights, when I had nothing better to do.
Your daughter shows that she has been well taught,
and her good conduct and good character speak strongly in favour of her parents.
You are very good, very good indeed, sir, to speak in this sort of way,
But I mean to do more than PAY YOU WITH WORDS,
that you'll never have cause to repent your goodness.
I know she did not keep that guinea for herself,
I'm quite well. Joy, I think, has made me quite well.
there is, to be sure, a favour I should like to ask; it is for Rose.
Ma'am, you have seen her, I believe; she is a very good girl, indeed,
and she and her mother heard you were looking out for someone to wait upon you.
and the next time he comes, I can give him one of my guinea-hen's eggs, and I shall show my lamb, Daisy.
and he will play that tune and sing that pretty ballad. Where is it? for I have not finished it.
Rose ran away with it, mother, but I'll step after her, and bring it back to you this minute,
The words are something, but the tune--the tune--I must have the tune,
I tell you it's all true, every word of it. Susan's too modest to say it herself; but I tell ye all, Sir Arthur gave us this play-green for ever, on account of her being so good.
I am much obliged to you, Mr. Cox, but I have no business at Cork at present,
that I could find out and light upon the man that has belied me to your honour.
No man has belied you, Mr. Cox, but your nose belies you much, if you do not love drinking a little, and your black eye and cut chin belie you much if you do not love quarrelling a little.
Please your honour, that new inn is not let, I hear, as yet,
if your honour recollects, you promised to make me a compliment of it last Seraphtide was twelvemonth.
for I had no thoughts of building an inn at that time.
But I will not leave it to him, I assure you,
I never made any such promise. I never thought of letting this inn to you.
No, you have told me a dozen falsehoods. I do not wish to have you for a tenant.
Well, God bless your honour; I've no more to say, but God bless your honour,
Ha! perhaps Mr. Cox has broken my windows, in revenge for my refusing to let him my house,
I should like to go up those stairs, and to see what I should come to.
Stay! O stay! don't chop his head off: he does not deserve it,
I broke your window with this ball; but I did not know that I had done it, till this moment, I assure you, or I should have told you before. Don't chop his head off,
if you'll come up here, I'll show you all I know, and how I came to know it.
We were playing there at ball yesterday evening,
and in the bow-window room below there's plenty of his feathers to be seen; for I've just been down to look. It was the pigeon broke THEM windows, sure enough.
But he could not have got in had I not broke this little window,
Take the pigeon, my honest, generous lad,
Many's the sixpence he earns, but not a halfpenny goes into his own pocket: it goes every farthing to his poor father and mother. Happy for them to have such a son!
More happy for him to have such a father and mother,
And where does this boy live, and who are his father and mother? They cannot live in town,
They are but just come into the town, please your honour,
This is an excellent character of the boy, indeed,
and from his behaviour this morning I am inclined to think that he deserves all your praises.
So, Brian, I see your schooling has not been thrown away upon you; you like your book, I see, when you have no master over you to bid you read,
Thank you for having me taught to read, father,
If we can't have it by fair means, we will by foul,
O, father, here's my white pigeon come back of his own accord,
Let us go and show it to Mr. Somerville.
I suppose you know that a reward of ten guineas was offered some weeks ago for the discovery of John Mac Dermod, one of the eight men whom we have just taken up?
I did not know it, and I did not bring that note to you to get ten guineas, but because I thought it was right. I don't want to be paid for doing it.
We thank you, sir; but we'll not take the money; I DON'T LIKE TO TAKE THE PRICE OF BLOOD.
between vile informers and courageous, honest men.
Why, as to that, please your honour, though we are poor, I hope we are honest.
I have a notion that you would continue to be honest, even if you were rich. Will you, my good lad,
will you trust me with your pigeon a few days?
and pull that sign straight, for it hangs quite crooked. There, now it is straight. Now pull off the carpet, and let us see the new sign.
Take care you do not tumble down and break your neck upon this joyful occasion,
do you know what I have been thinking of all this time?
Why, mamma, about my cousin Bell's birthday; do you know what day it is?
What do you mean my dear? I remember your birthday perfectly well.
What do you mean by keeping your birthday?
Oh, mamma, you know very well--as Bell's birthday is kept. In the first place, there is a great dinner.
And can Bell eat more upon her birthday than upon any other day?
But why the nice new playthings? Do you like them only because they are NEW?
Nay, Rosamond, thank you, not just now; I have not time to listen to you.
Well then, mamma, the day after to-morrow I can show you the drawer. I want you to judge very much, because I am sure I was in the right. And, mother,
will you--not now, but when you've time--will you tell me why you never keep my birthday--why you never make any difference between that day and any other day?
And will you, Rosamond--not now, but when you have time to think about it--tell me why I should make any difference between your birthday and any other day?
what have you done with your half-guinea?
she whispered so loud that I could not help hearing her too. She said I was a little miser.
besides, you have spoiled all my lace. I can't stay.
Come, now, my dear, if you want this filigree paper, buy it.
Quite! quite spoiled! and I can't, nor mother neither, buy another; and I can't do anything else for my bread.
I am afraid you will never make a sheet of paper cover a box which is twice as large as itself.
Oh, sir! father! sir! you will spoil it indeed!
Indeed, sir, you will spoil the poor handle.
if we are not to take hold of it? And pray,
pray, is this the thing you have been about all this week? I have seen you all this week dabbling with paste and rags; I could not conceive what you were about. Is this the thing?
Yes, sir. You think, then, that I have wasted my time, because the basket is of no use; but then it is a present for my Cousin Bell.
Your Cousin Bell will be very much obliged to you for a present that is of no use. You had better have given her the purple jar.
Oh, father! I thought you had forgotten that--it was two years ago; I'm not so silly now. But Bell will like the basket, I know, though it is of no use.
Then you think Bell is sillier now than you were two years ago,--well, perhaps that is true; but how comes it, Rosamond, now that you are so wise, that you are fond of such a silly person?
Well, but I don't think I am at all fond of her.
But you have spent a whole week in making this thing for her.
Yet you think her silly, and you are not fond of her at all; and you say you know this thing will be of no use to her.
But it is her birthday, sir; and I am sure she will EXPECT something, and everybody else will give her something.
Then your reason for giving is because she expects you to give her something. And will you, or can you, or should you, always give, merely because others EXPECT, or because somebody else gives?
Now you are making a joke of me, papa, I see; but I thought you liked that people should be generous,--my godmother said that she did.
So do I, full as well as your godmother; but we have not yet quite settled what it is to be generous.
Why is it not generous to make presents?
Because you have made ONE mistake? No. If you have sense enough to see your own mistakes, and can afterwards avoid them, you will never be a fool.
See here, miss, what your mamma has sent you on your birthday. Here's a frock fit for a queen--if it had but lace round the cuffs.
And why has not it lace around the cuffs? mamma said it should.
Yes, but mistress was disappointed about the lace; it is not come home.
Not come home, indeed! and didn't they know it was my birthday? But then I say I won't wear it without the lace--I can't wear it without the lace, and I won't.
dry your eyes, and I'll tell you something that will please you.
Why--but you must not tell that I told you.
Why, if you are asked, you must tell the truth, to be sure. So I'll hold my tongue, miss.
Nay, tell me, though, and I'll never tell--if I AM asked.
I can't wait till then; I must see it this minute.
How pretty!--but let me have it in my own hands,
Oh, no, you must not touch it; for if you should spoil it, what would become of me?
Become of YOU, indeed! what signifies that--I sha'n't spoil it; and I will have it in my own hands. If you don't hold it down for me directly, I'll tell that you showed it to me.
I have brought home the lace, madam, that was bespoke for the young lady.
and pray why didn't you bring it sooner?
Come, come, none of your excuses; you are a little idle, good-for-nothing thing, to disappoint Miss Bell upon her birthday. But now you have brought it, let us look at it!
May I call again, madam, this afternoon?
nobody in all London can make it but one person, and that person will never make a bit for anybody but me, I am sure. Mamma won't let her, if I ask her not.
I do not want any of it; you need not be so violent: I assure you that I don't want any of it.
You do, in the bottom of your heart; but you say you don't to plague me, I know,
It is pretty for all that, and it cost a great deal of money too, and nobody shall have any like it, if they cried their eyes out.
